================================================================================

FFmpeg-n5.1.1

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

LICENSES 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Zlib

zlib License

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty.  In
no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of
this software.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including
commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to
the following restrictions:

     1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a
product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but
is not required.

     2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
misrepresented as being the original software.

     3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Public-domain

Public Domain

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of
the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
subject to the following conditions:



The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.



THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

License-of-FSF-Licenses

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LGPL-2.1+
GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2.1, February 1999

Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL. It also counts
as the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence
the version number 2.1.]

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.

This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some specially
designated software packages--typically libraries--of the Free Software
Foundation and other authors who decide to use it. You can use it too, but we
suggest you first think carefully about whether this license or the ordinary
General Public License is the better strategy to use in any particular case,
based on the explanations below.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use, not price.
Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom
to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish);
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it; that you can change
the software and use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you are
informed that you can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid distributors to
deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these rights. These
restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute
copies of the library or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link other code
with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients, so
that they can relink them with the library after making changes to the library
and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the library, and
(2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the library.

To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that there is no
warranty for the free library. Also, if the library is modified by someone else
and passed on, the recipients should know that what they have is not the
original version, so that the original author's reputation will not be affected
by problems that might be introduced by others.

Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of any free
program. We wish to make sure that a company cannot effectively restrict the
users of a free program by obtaining a restrictive license from a patent holder.
Therefore, we insist that any patent license obtained for a version of the
library must be consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this
license.

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License. This license, the GNU Lesser General Public License,
applies to certain designated libraries, and is quite different from the
ordinary General Public License. We use this license for certain libraries in
order to permit linking those libraries into non-free programs.

When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using a shared
library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a combined work, a
derivative of the original library. The ordinary General Public License
therefore permits such linking only if the entire combination fits its criteria
of freedom. The Lesser General Public License permits more lax criteria for
linking other code with the library.

We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it does Less to
protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General Public License. It also
provides other free software developers Less of an advantage over competing non-
free programs. These disadvantages are the reason we use the ordinary General
Public License for many libraries. However, the Lesser license provides
advantages in certain special circumstances.

For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to encourage the
widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes a de-facto
standard. To achieve this, non-free programs must be allowed to use the library.
A more frequent case is that a free library does the same job as widely used
non-free libraries. In this case, there is little to gain by limiting the free
library to free software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free programs
enables a greater number of people to use a large body of free software. For
example, permission to use the GNU C Library in non-free programs enables many
more people to use the whole GNU operating system, as well as its variant, the
GNU/Linux operating system.

Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the users'
freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is linked with the
Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run that program using a modified
version of the Library.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived
from the library, whereas the latter must be combined with the library in order
to run.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other program which
contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party
saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Lesser General Public
License (also called "this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".

A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so as
to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those
functions and data) to form executables.

The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has been
distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either the
Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work
containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications
and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter,
translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)

"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
library.

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by
this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using the
Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if its
contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of the
Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the
Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete source
code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along
with the Library.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at
your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it, thus
forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such modifications
or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of
these conditions:

a) The modified work must itself be a software library.
b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating that you
changed the files and the date of any change.
c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all third
parties under the terms of this License.
d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table of data
to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other than as
an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a good faith
effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply such function
or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of its purpose
remains meaningful.
(For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose that
is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore, Subsection
2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by this
function must be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square
root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with the
Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License
instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must
alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the
ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If
a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has
appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make
any other change in these notices.

Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy, so
the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and
derivative works made from that copy.

This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library into
a program that is not a library.

4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1
and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding
machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.

If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object
code.

5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but is
designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is called
a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a derivative
work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of
the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is
therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of
such executables.

When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is
part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of
the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is
especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the
work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely
defined by law.

If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts
and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in
length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether
it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus
portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)

Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the
object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables
containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked
directly with the Library itself.

6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or link a "work
that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing portions of
the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice, provided that
the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications.

You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is
used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You
must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays
copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among
them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.
Also, you must do one of these things:

a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work (which
must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an
executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work
that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can
modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing
the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents
of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile
the application to use the modified definitions.)
b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the Library. A
suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a copy of the library
already present on the user's computer system, rather than copying library
functions into the executable, and (2) will operate properly with a modified
version of the library, if the user installs one, as long as the modified
version is interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.
c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge
no more than the cost of performing this distribution.
d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials
from the same place.
e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or that
you have already sent this user a copy.
For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must
include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from
it. However, as a special exception, the materials to be distributed need not
include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form)
with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system
on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the
executable.

It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of
other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system.
Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in
an executable that you distribute.

7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library side-
by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not covered
by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that the
separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other library
facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on the
Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be distributed
under the terms of the Sections above.
b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part of it
is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the accompanying
uncombined form of the same work.
8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy,
modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will
automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who
have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their
licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any
work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Library or works based on it.

10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the Library),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these terms and
conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients'
exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing
compliance by third parties with this License.

11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library specifies
a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version",
you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version
or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the
Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any version
ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions
for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free
status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and
reuse of software generally.

NO WARRANTY

15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE
LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can
redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these
terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public
License).

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.
Copyright (C) year name of author

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in
the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written
by James Random Hacker.

signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1990
Ty Coon, President of Vice
That's all there is to it!
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LGPL-2.0+

GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the library GPL. It is numbered 2 because
it goes with version 2 of the ordinary GPL.]

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.

This license, the Library General Public License, applies to some specially
designated Free Software Foundation software, and to any other libraries whose
authors decide to use it. You can use it for your libraries, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
library, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link a program
with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients so
that they can relink them with the library, after making changes to the library
and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

Our method of protecting your rights has two steps: (1) copyright the library,
and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the library.

Also, for each distributor's protection, we want to make certain that everyone
understands that there is no warranty for this free library. If the library is
modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to know that what
they have is not the original version, so that any problems introduced by others
will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that companies distributing free software will individually
obtain patent licenses, thus in effect transforming the program into proprietary
software. To prevent this, we have made it clear that any patent must be
licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License, which was designed for utility programs. This license,
the GNU Library General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries.
This license is quite different from the ordinary one; be sure to read it in
full, and don't assume that anything in it is the same as in the ordinary
license.

The reason we have a separate public license for some libraries is that they
blur the distinction we usually make between modifying or adding to a program
and simply using it. Linking a program with a library, without changing the
library, is in some sense simply using the library, and is analogous to running
a utility program or application program. However, in a textual and legal sense,
the linked executable is a combined work, a derivative of the original library,
and the ordinary General Public License treats it as such.

Because of this blurred distinction, using the ordinary General Public License
for libraries did not effectively promote software sharing, because most
developers did not use the libraries. We concluded that weaker conditions might
promote sharing better.

However, unrestricted linking of non-free programs would deprive the users of
those programs of all benefit from the free status of the libraries themselves.
This Library General Public License is intended to permit developers of non-free
programs to use free libraries, while preserving your freedom as a user of such
programs to change the free libraries that are incorporated in them. (We have
not seen how to achieve this as regards changes in header files, but we have
achieved it as regards changes in the actual functions of the Library.) The hope
is that this will lead to faster development of free libraries.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived
from the library, while the latter only works together with the library.

Note that it is possible for a library to be covered by the ordinary General
Public License rather than by this special one.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

   0. This License Agreement applies to any software library which contains a
notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying it may be
distributed under the terms of this Library General Public License (also called
"this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so
as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those
functions and data) to form executables.

   The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has
been distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either
the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work
containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications
and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter,
translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)

   "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
library.

   Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using
the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if
its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of
the Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the
Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously
and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along
with the Library.

   You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also
meet all of these conditions:

      a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

      b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

      c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
third parties under the terms of this License.

      d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table
of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other
than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a
good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply
such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part
of its purpose remains meaningful.

      (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a
purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore,
Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by
this function must be optional: if the application does not supply it, the
square root function must still compute square roots.)

   These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

   Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Library.

   In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with
the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

   3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License
instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must
alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the
ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If
a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has
appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make
any other change in these notices.

   Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy,
so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and
derivative works made from that copy.

   This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library
into a program that is not a library.

   4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1
and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding
machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.

   If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object
code.

   5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but
is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is
called a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a
derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this
License.

   However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of
the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is
therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of
such executables.

   When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is
part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of
the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is
especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the
work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely
defined by law.

   If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts
and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in
length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether
it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus
portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)

   Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the
object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables
containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked
directly with the Library itself.

   6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also compile or link a
"work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing
portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice,
provided that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own
use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.

   You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is
used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You
must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays
copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among
them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.
Also, you must do one of these things:

      a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work
(which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an
executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work
that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can
modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing
the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents
of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile
the application to use the modified definitions.)

      b) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above,
for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

      c) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials
from the same place.

      d) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
that you have already sent this user a copy.

   For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must
include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from
it. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed need not
include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form)
with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system
on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the
executable.

   It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of
other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system.
Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in
an executable that you distribute.

   7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library
side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not
covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that
the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other
library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two
things:

      a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on
the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be
distributed under the terms of the Sections above.

      b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part
of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

   8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy,
modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will
automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who
have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their
licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any
work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Library or works based on it.

   10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original
licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these
terms and conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the
recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for
enforcing compliance by third parties to this License.

   11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Library.

   If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

   It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents
or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

   This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

   12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

   13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the Library General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any
version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions
for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free
status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and
reuse of software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY
"AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can
redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these
terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public
License).

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.

Copyright (C) year name of author

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Library General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public License along
with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in

the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written

by James Random Hacker.

signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1990

Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ISC

Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ISC

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

IJG

The authors make NO WARRANTY or representation, either express or implied,
with respect to this software, its quality, accuracy, merchantability, or
fitness for a particular purpose. This software is provided "AS IS", and
you, its user, assume the entire risk as to its quality and accuracy.

This software is copyright (C) 1994-1996, Thomas G. Lane.
All Rights Reserved except as specified below.

Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software (or portions thereof) for any purpose, without fee, subject to
these conditions:
(1) If any part of the source code for this software is distributed, then
this README file must be included, with this copyright and no-warranty
notice unaltered; and any additions, deletions, or changes to the original
files must be clearly indicated in accompanying documentation.
(2) If only executable code is distributed, then the accompanying
documentation must state that "this software is based in part on the work
of the Independent JPEG Group".
(3) Permission for use of this software is granted only if the user accepts
full responsibility for any undesirable consequences; the authors accept
NO LIABILITY for damages of any kind.

These conditions apply to any software derived from or based on the IJG
code, not just to the unmodified library. If you use our work, you ought
to acknowledge us.

Permission is NOT granted for the use of any IJG author's name or company
name in advertising or publicity relating to this software or products
derived from it. This software may be referred to only as "the Independent
JPEG Group's software".

We specifically permit and encourage the use of this software as the basis
of commercial products, provided that all warranty or liability claims are
assumed by the product vendor.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

IJG

The authors make NO WARRANTY or representation, either express or implied,
with respect to this software, its quality, accuracy, merchantability, or
fitness for a particular purpose. This software is provided "AS IS", and
you, its user, assume the entire risk as to its quality and accuracy.

This software is copyright (C) 1991-1996, Thomas G. Lane.
All Rights Reserved except as specified below.

Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software (or portions thereof) for any purpose, without fee, subject to
these conditions:
(1) If any part of the source code for this software is distributed, then
this README file must be included, with this copyright and no-warranty
notice unaltered; and any additions, deletions, or changes to the original
files must be clearly indicated in accompanying documentation.
(2) If only executable code is distributed, then the accompanying
documentation must state that "this software is based in part on the work
of the Independent JPEG Group".
(3) Permission for use of this software is granted only if the user accepts
full responsibility for any undesirable consequences; the authors accept
NO LIABILITY for damages of any kind.

These conditions apply to any software derived from or based on the IJG
code, not just to the unmodified library. If you use our work, you ought
to acknowledge us.

Permission is NOT granted for the use of any IJG author's name or company
name in advertising or publicity relating to this software or products
derived from it. This software may be referred to only as "the Independent
JPEG Group's software".

We specifically permit and encourage the use of this software as the basis
of commercial products, provided that all warranty or liability claims are
assumed by the product vendor.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

IJG

The authors make NO WARRANTY or representation, either express or implied,
with respect to this software, its quality, accuracy, merchantability, or
fitness for a particular purpose. This software is provided "AS IS", and
you, its user, assume the entire risk as to its quality and accuracy.

This software is copyright (C) 1991, 1992, Thomas G. Lane.
All Rights Reserved except as specified below.

Permission is hereby granted to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
software (or portions thereof) for any purpose, without fee, subject to
these conditions:
(1) If any part of the source code for this software is distributed, then
this README file must be included, with this copyright and no-warranty
notice unaltered; and any additions, deletions, or changes to the original
files must be clearly indicated in accompanying documentation.
(2) If only executable code is distributed, then the accompanying
documentation must state that "this software is based in part on the work
of the Independent JPEG Group".
(3) Permission for use of this software is granted only if the user accepts
full responsibility for any undesirable consequences; the authors accept
NO LIABILITY for damages of any kind.

These conditions apply to any software derived from or based on the IJG
code, not just to the unmodified library. If you use our work, you ought
to acknowledge us.

Permission is NOT granted for the use of any IJG author's name or company
name in advertising or publicity relating to this software or products
derived from it. This software may be referred to only as "the Independent
JPEG Group's software".

We specifically permit and encourage the use of this software as the basis
of commercial products, provided that all warranty or liability claims are
assumed by the product vendor.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-3.0+

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 3, 29 June 2007

Copyright © 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <https://fsf.org/>

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for software and
other kinds of works.

The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed to take
away your freedom to share and change the works. By contrast, the GNU General
Public License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change all
versions of a program--to make sure it remains free software for all its users.
We, the Free Software Foundation, use the GNU General Public License for most of
our software; it applies also to any other work released this way by its
authors. You can apply it to your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for them if you wish), that you
receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change the
software or use pieces of it in new free programs, and that you know you can do
these things.

To protect your rights, we need to prevent others from denying you these rights
or asking you to surrender the rights. Therefore, you have certain
responsibilities if you distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it:
responsibilities to respect the freedom of others.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must pass on to the recipients the same freedoms that you received. You
must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must
show them these terms so they know their rights.

Developers that use the GNU GPL protect your rights with two steps: (1) assert
copyright on the software, and (2) offer you this License giving you legal
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify it.

For the developers' and authors' protection, the GPL clearly explains that there
is no warranty for this free software. For both users' and authors' sake, the
GPL requires that modified versions be marked as changed, so that their problems
will not be attributed erroneously to authors of previous versions.

Some devices are designed to deny users access to install or run modified
versions of the software inside them, although the manufacturer can do so. This
is fundamentally incompatible with the aim of protecting users' freedom to
change the software. The systematic pattern of such abuse occurs in the area of
products for individuals to use, which is precisely where it is most
unacceptable. Therefore, we have designed this version of the GPL to prohibit
the practice for those products. If such problems arise substantially in other
domains, we stand ready to extend this provision to those domains in future
versions of the GPL, as needed to protect the freedom of users.

Finally, every program is threatened constantly by software patents. States
should not allow patents to restrict development and use of software on general-
purpose computers, but in those that do, we wish to avoid the special danger
that patents applied to a free program could make it effectively proprietary. To
prevent this, the GPL assures that patents cannot be used to render the program
non-free.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   0. Definitions.

   "This License" refers to version 3 of the GNU General Public License.

   "Copyright" also means copyright-like laws that apply to other kinds of
works, such as semiconductor masks.

   "The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this License.
Each licensee is addressed as "you". "Licensees" and "recipients" may be
individuals or organizations.

   To "modify" a work means to copy from or adapt all or part of the work in a
fashion requiring copyright permission, other than the making of an exact copy.
The resulting work is called a "modified version" of the earlier work or a work
"based on" the earlier work.

   A "covered work" means either the unmodified Program or a work based on the
Program.

   To "propagate" a work means to do anything with it that, without permission,
would make you directly or secondarily liable for infringement under applicable
copyright law, except executing it on a computer or modifying a private copy.
Propagation includes copying, distribution (with or without modification),
making available to the public, and in some countries other activities as well.

   To "convey" a work means any kind of propagation that enables other parties
to make or receive copies. Mere interaction with a user through a computer
network, with no transfer of a copy, is not conveying.

   An interactive user interface displays "Appropriate Legal Notices" to the
extent that it includes a convenient and prominently visible feature that (1)
displays an appropriate copyright notice, and (2) tells the user that there is
no warranty for the work (except to the extent that warranties are provided),
that licensees may convey the work under this License, and how to view a copy of
this License. If the interface presents a list of user commands or options, such
as a menu, a prominent item in the list meets this criterion.

   1. Source Code.

   The "source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. "Object code" means any non-source form of a work.

   A "Standard Interface" means an interface that either is an official standard
defined by a recognized standards body, or, in the case of interfaces specified
for a particular programming language, one that is widely used among developers
working in that language.

   The "System Libraries" of an executable work include anything, other than the
work as a whole, that (a) is included in the normal form of packaging a Major
Component, but which is not part of that Major Component, and (b) serves only to
enable use of the work with that Major Component, or to implement a Standard
Interface for which an implementation is available to the public in source code
form. A "Major Component", in this context, means a major essential component
(kernel, window system, and so on) of the specific operating system (if any) on
which the executable work runs, or a compiler used to produce the work, or an
object code interpreter used to run it.

   The "Corresponding Source" for a work in object code form means all the
source code needed to generate, install, and (for an executable work) run the
object code and to modify the work, including scripts to control those
activities. However, it does not include the work's System Libraries, or
general-purpose tools or generally available free programs which are used
unmodified in performing those activities but which are not part of the work.
For example, Corresponding Source includes interface definition files associated
with source files for the work, and the source code for shared libraries and
dynamically linked subprograms that the work is specifically designed to
require, such as by intimate data communication or control flow between those
subprograms and other parts of the work.

   The Corresponding Source need not include anything that users can regenerate
automatically from other parts of the Corresponding Source.

   The Corresponding Source for a work in source code form is that same work.

   2. Basic Permissions.

   All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of copyright
on the Program, and are irrevocable provided the stated conditions are met. This
License explicitly affirms your unlimited permission to run the unmodified
Program. The output from running a covered work is covered by this License only
if the output, given its content, constitutes a covered work. This License
acknowledges your rights of fair use or other equivalent, as provided by
copyright law.

   You may make, run and propagate covered works that you do not convey, without
conditions so long as your license otherwise remains in force. You may convey
covered works to others for the sole purpose of having them make modifications
exclusively for you, or provide you with facilities for running those works,
provided that you comply with the terms of this License in conveying all
material for which you do not control copyright. Those thus making or running
the covered works for you must do so exclusively on your behalf, under your
direction and control, on terms that prohibit them from making any copies of
your copyrighted material outside their relationship with you.

   Conveying under any other circumstances is permitted solely under the
conditions stated below. Sublicensing is not allowed; section 10 makes it
unnecessary.

   3. Protecting Users' Legal Rights From Anti-Circumvention Law.

   No covered work shall be deemed part of an effective technological measure
under any applicable law fulfilling obligations under article 11 of the WIPO
copyright treaty adopted on 20 December 1996, or similar laws prohibiting or
restricting circumvention of such measures.

   When you convey a covered work, you waive any legal power to forbid
circumvention of technological measures to the extent such circumvention is
effected by exercising rights under this License with respect to the covered
work, and you disclaim any intention to limit operation or modification of the
work as a means of enforcing, against the work's users, your or third parties'
legal rights to forbid circumvention of technological measures.

   4. Conveying Verbatim Copies.

   You may convey verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you receive
it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on
each copy an appropriate copyright notice; keep intact all notices stating that
this License and any non-permissive terms added in accord with section 7 apply
to the code; keep intact all notices of the absence of any warranty; and give
all recipients a copy of this License along with the Program.

   You may charge any price or no price for each copy that you convey, and you
may offer support or warranty protection for a fee.

   5. Conveying Modified Source Versions.

   You may convey a work based on the Program, or the modifications to produce
it from the Program, in the form of source code under the terms of section 4,
provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

      a) The work must carry prominent notices stating that you modified it, and
giving a relevant date.

      b) The work must carry prominent notices stating that it is released under
this License and any conditions added under section 7. This requirement modifies
the requirement in section 4 to "keep intact all notices".

      c) You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this License to
anyone who comes into possession of a copy. This License will therefore apply,
along with any applicable section 7 additional terms, to the whole of the work,
and all its parts, regardless of how they are packaged. This License gives no
permission to license the work in any other way, but it does not invalidate such
permission if you have separately received it.

      d) If the work has interactive user interfaces, each must display
Appropriate Legal Notices; however, if the Program has interactive interfaces
that do not display Appropriate Legal Notices, your work need not make them do
so.

   A compilation of a covered work with other separate and independent works,
which are not by their nature extensions of the covered work, and which are not
combined with it such as to form a larger program, in or on a volume of a
storage or distribution medium, is called an "aggregate" if the compilation and
its resulting copyright are not used to limit the access or legal rights of the
compilation's users beyond what the individual works permit. Inclusion of a
covered work in an aggregate does not cause this License to apply to the other
parts of the aggregate.

   6. Conveying Non-Source Forms.

   You may convey a covered work in object code form under the terms of sections
4 and 5, provided that you also convey the machine-readable Corresponding Source
under the terms of this License, in one of these ways:

      a) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
(including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by the Corresponding
Source fixed on a durable physical medium customarily used for software
interchange.

      b) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
(including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by a written offer,
valid for at least three years and valid for as long as you offer spare parts or
customer support for that product model, to give anyone who possesses the object
code either (1) a copy of the Corresponding Source for all the software in the
product that is covered by this License, on a durable physical medium
customarily used for software interchange, for a price no more than your
reasonable cost of physically performing this conveying of source, or (2) access
to copy the Corresponding Source from a network server at no charge.

      c) Convey individual copies of the object code with a copy of the written
offer to provide the Corresponding Source. This alternative is allowed only
occasionally and noncommercially, and only if you received the object code with
such an offer, in accord with subsection 6b.

      d) Convey the object code by offering access from a designated place
(gratis or for a charge), and offer equivalent access to the Corresponding
Source in the same way through the same place at no further charge. You need not
require recipients to copy the Corresponding Source along with the object code.
If the place to copy the object code is a network server, the Corresponding
Source may be on a different server (operated by you or a third party) that
supports equivalent copying facilities, provided you maintain clear directions
next to the object code saying where to find the Corresponding Source.
Regardless of what server hosts the Corresponding Source, you remain obligated
to ensure that it is available for as long as needed to satisfy these
requirements.

      e) Convey the object code using peer-to-peer transmission, provided you
inform other peers where the object code and Corresponding Source of the work
are being offered to the general public at no charge under subsection 6d.

   A separable portion of the object code, whose source code is excluded from
the Corresponding Source as a System Library, need not be included in conveying
the object code work.

   A "User Product" is either (1) a "consumer product", which means any tangible
personal property which is normally used for personal, family, or household
purposes, or (2) anything designed or sold for incorporation into a dwelling. In
determining whether a product is a consumer product, doubtful cases shall be
resolved in favor of coverage. For a particular product received by a particular
user, "normally used" refers to a typical or common use of that class of
product, regardless of the status of the particular user or of the way in which
the particular user actually uses, or expects or is expected to use, the
product. A product is a consumer product regardless of whether the product has
substantial commercial, industrial or non-consumer uses, unless such uses
represent the only significant mode of use of the product.

   "Installation Information" for a User Product means any methods, procedures,
authorization keys, or other information required to install and execute
modified versions of a covered work in that User Product from a modified version
of its Corresponding Source. The information must suffice to ensure that the
continued functioning of the modified object code is in no case prevented or
interfered with solely because modification has been made.

   If you convey an object code work under this section in, or with, or
specifically for use in, a User Product, and the conveying occurs as part of a
transaction in which the right of possession and use of the User Product is
transferred to the recipient in perpetuity or for a fixed term (regardless of
how the transaction is characterized), the Corresponding Source conveyed under
this section must be accompanied by the Installation Information. But this
requirement does not apply if neither you nor any third party retains the
ability to install modified object code on the User Product (for example, the
work has been installed in ROM).

   The requirement to provide Installation Information does not include a
requirement to continue to provide support service, warranty, or updates for a
work that has been modified or installed by the recipient, or for the User
Product in which it has been modified or installed. Access to a network may be
denied when the modification itself materially and adversely affects the
operation of the network or violates the rules and protocols for communication
across the network.

   Corresponding Source conveyed, and Installation Information provided, in
accord with this section must be in a format that is publicly documented (and
with an implementation available to the public in source code form), and must
require no special password or key for unpacking, reading or copying.

   7. Additional Terms.

   "Additional permissions" are terms that supplement the terms of this License
by making exceptions from one or more of its conditions. Additional permissions
that are applicable to the entire Program shall be treated as though they were
included in this License, to the extent that they are valid under applicable
law. If additional permissions apply only to part of the Program, that part may
be used separately under those permissions, but the entire Program remains
governed by this License without regard to the additional permissions.

   When you convey a copy of a covered work, you may at your option remove any
additional permissions from that copy, or from any part of it. (Additional
permissions may be written to require their own removal in certain cases when
you modify the work.) You may place additional permissions on material, added by
you to a covered work, for which you have or can give appropriate copyright
permission.

   Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, for material you add to
a covered work, you may (if authorized by the copyright holders of that
material) supplement the terms of this License with terms:

      a) Disclaiming warranty or limiting liability differently from the terms
of sections 15 and 16 of this License; or

      b) Requiring preservation of specified reasonable legal notices or author
attributions in that material or in the Appropriate Legal Notices displayed by
works containing it; or

      c) Prohibiting misrepresentation of the origin of that material, or
requiring that modified versions of such material be marked in reasonable ways
as different from the original version; or

      d) Limiting the use for publicity purposes of names of licensors or
authors of the material; or

      e) Declining to grant rights under trademark law for use of some trade
names, trademarks, or service marks; or

      f) Requiring indemnification of licensors and authors of that material by
anyone who conveys the material (or modified versions of it) with contractual
assumptions of liability to the recipient, for any liability that these
contractual assumptions directly impose on those licensors and authors.

   All other non-permissive additional terms are considered "further
restrictions" within the meaning of section 10. If the Program as you received
it, or any part of it, contains a notice stating that it is governed by this
License along with a term that is a further restriction, you may remove that
term. If a license document contains a further restriction but permits
relicensing or conveying under this License, you may add to a covered work
material governed by the terms of that license document, provided that the
further restriction does not survive such relicensing or conveying.

   If you add terms to a covered work in accord with this section, you must
place, in the relevant source files, a statement of the additional terms that
apply to those files, or a notice indicating where to find the applicable terms.

   Additional terms, permissive or non-permissive, may be stated in the form of
a separately written license, or stated as exceptions; the above requirements
apply either way.

   8. Termination.

   You may not propagate or modify a covered work except as expressly provided
under this License. Any attempt otherwise to propagate or modify it is void, and
will automatically terminate your rights under this License (including any
patent licenses granted under the third paragraph of section 11).

   However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your license from a
particular copyright holder is reinstated (a) provisionally, unless and until
the copyright holder explicitly and finally terminates your license, and (b)
permanently, if the copyright holder fails to notify you of the violation by
some reasonable means prior to 60 days after the cessation.

   Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated
permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the violation by some
reasonable means, this is the first time you have received notice of violation
of this License (for any work) from that copyright holder, and you cure the
violation prior to 30 days after your receipt of the notice.

   Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the licenses
of parties who have received copies or rights from you under this License. If
your rights have been terminated and not permanently reinstated, you do not
qualify to receive new licenses for the same material under section 10.

   9. Acceptance Not Required for Having Copies.

   You are not required to accept this License in order to receive or run a copy
of the Program. Ancillary propagation of a covered work occurring solely as a
consequence of using peer-to-peer transmission to receive a copy likewise does
not require acceptance. However, nothing other than this License grants you
permission to propagate or modify any covered work. These actions infringe
copyright if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or
propagating a covered work, you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so.

   10. Automatic Licensing of Downstream Recipients.

   Each time you convey a covered work, the recipient automatically receives a
license from the original licensors, to run, modify and propagate that work,
subject to this License. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by
third parties with this License.

   An "entity transaction" is a transaction transferring control of an
organization, or substantially all assets of one, or subdividing an
organization, or merging organizations. If propagation of a covered work results
from an entity transaction, each party to that transaction who receives a copy
of the work also receives whatever licenses to the work the party's predecessor
in interest had or could give under the previous paragraph, plus a right to
possession of the Corresponding Source of the work from the predecessor in
interest, if the predecessor has it or can get it with reasonable efforts.

   You may not impose any further restrictions on the exercise of the rights
granted or affirmed under this License. For example, you may not impose a
license fee, royalty, or other charge for exercise of rights granted under this
License, and you may not initiate litigation (including a cross-claim or
counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that any patent claim is infringed by
making, using, selling, offering for sale, or importing the Program or any
portion of it.

   11. Patents.

   A "contributor" is a copyright holder who authorizes use under this License
of the Program or a work on which the Program is based. The work thus licensed
is called the contributor's "contributor version".

   A contributor's "essential patent claims" are all patent claims owned or
controlled by the contributor, whether already acquired or hereafter acquired,
that would be infringed by some manner, permitted by this License, of making,
using, or selling its contributor version, but do not include claims that would
be infringed only as a consequence of further modification of the contributor
version. For purposes of this definition, "control" includes the right to grant
patent sublicenses in a manner consistent with the requirements of this License.

   Each contributor grants you a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent
license under the contributor's essential patent claims, to make, use, sell,
offer for sale, import and otherwise run, modify and propagate the contents of
its contributor version.

   In the following three paragraphs, a "patent license" is any express
agreement or commitment, however denominated, not to enforce a patent (such as
an express permission to practice a patent or covenant not to sue for patent
infringement). To "grant" such a patent license to a party means to make such an
agreement or commitment not to enforce a patent against the party.

   If you convey a covered work, knowingly relying on a patent license, and the
Corresponding Source of the work is not available for anyone to copy, free of
charge and under the terms of this License, through a publicly available network
server or other readily accessible means, then you must either (1) cause the
Corresponding Source to be so available, or (2) arrange to deprive yourself of
the benefit of the patent license for this particular work, or (3) arrange, in a
manner consistent with the requirements of this License, to extend the patent
license to downstream recipients. "Knowingly relying" means you have actual
knowledge that, but for the patent license, your conveying the covered work in a
country, or your recipient's use of the covered work in a country, would
infringe one or more identifiable patents in that country that you have reason
to believe are valid.

   If, pursuant to or in connection with a single transaction or arrangement,
you convey, or propagate by procuring conveyance of, a covered work, and grant a
patent license to some of the parties receiving the covered work authorizing
them to use, propagate, modify or convey a specific copy of the covered work,
then the patent license you grant is automatically extended to all recipients of
the covered work and works based on it.

   A patent license is "discriminatory" if it does not include within the scope
of its coverage, prohibits the exercise of, or is conditioned on the non-
exercise of one or more of the rights that are specifically granted under this
License. You may not convey a covered work if you are a party to an arrangement
with a third party that is in the business of distributing software, under which
you make payment to the third party based on the extent of your activity of
conveying the work, and under which the third party grants, to any of the
parties who would receive the covered work from you, a discriminatory patent
license (a) in connection with copies of the covered work conveyed by you (or
copies made from those copies), or (b) primarily for and in connection with
specific products or compilations that contain the covered work, unless you
entered into that arrangement, or that patent license was granted, prior to 28
March 2007.

   Nothing in this License shall be construed as excluding or limiting any
implied license or other defenses to infringement that may otherwise be
available to you under applicable patent law.

   12. No Surrender of Others' Freedom.

   If conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse
you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot convey a covered work so
as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other
pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not convey it at all. For
example, if you agree to terms that obligate you to collect a royalty for
further conveying from those to whom you convey the Program, the only way you
could satisfy both those terms and this License would be to refrain entirely
from conveying the Program.

   13. Use with the GNU Affero General Public License.

   Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, you have permission to
link or combine any covered work with a work licensed under version 3 of the GNU
Affero General Public License into a single combined work, and to convey the
resulting work. The terms of this License will continue to apply to the part
which is the covered work, but the special requirements of the GNU Affero
General Public License, section 13, concerning interaction through a network
will apply to the combination as such.

   14. Revised Versions of this License.

   The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
GNU General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar
in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new
problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies that a certain numbered version of the GNU General Public License "or
any later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that numbered version or of any later version published by
the Free Software Foundation. If the Program does not specify a version number
of the GNU General Public License, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation.

   If the Program specifies that a proxy can decide which future versions of the
GNU General Public License can be used, that proxy's public statement of
acceptance of a version permanently authorizes you to choose that version for
the Program.

   Later license versions may give you additional or different permissions.
However, no additional obligations are imposed on any author or copyright holder
as a result of your choosing to follow a later version.

   15. Disclaimer of Warranty.

   THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER
PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE
QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE
DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   16. Limitation of Liability.

   IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MODIFIES AND/OR CONVEYS THE PROGRAM
AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

   17. Interpretation of Sections 15 and 16.

If the disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability provided above cannot
be given local legal effect according to their terms, reviewing courts shall
apply local law that most closely approximates an absolute waiver of all civil
liability in connection with the Program, unless a warranty or assumption of
liability accompanies a copy of the Program in return for a fee.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively state the exclusion of
warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a pointer
to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program does terminal interaction, make it output a short notice like
this when it starts in an interactive mode:

<program> Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.

This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain
conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, your program's commands might be
different; for a GUI interface, you would use an "about box".

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or school, if
any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. For more
information on this, and how to apply and follow the GNU GPL, see
<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

The GNU General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs. If your program is a subroutine library, you may consider
it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the library. If
this is what you want to do, use the GNU Lesser General Public License instead
of this License. But first, please read <https://www.gnu.org/ licenses /why-not-
lgpl.html>.



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0+

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. This General Public License applies to most
of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose
authors commit to using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is
covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must show them
these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program will individually
obtain patent licenses, in effect making the program proprietary. To prevent
this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's free
use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

   0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice
placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such program or
work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or any
derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
translated into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without
limitation in the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running the Program is
not restricted, and the output from the Program is covered only if its contents
constitute a work based on the Program (independent of having been made by
running the Program). Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code
as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program
a copy of this License along with the Program.

   You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also
meet all of these conditions:

      a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

      b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole
or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be
licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this
License.

      c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the most
ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License. (Exception:
if the Program itself is interactive but does not normally print such an
announcement, your work based on the Program is not required to print an
announcement.)

   These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

   Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Program.

   In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with
the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

   3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under
Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above provided that you also do one of the following:

      a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

      b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of physically
performing source distribution, a complete machine-readable copy of the
corresponding source code, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

      c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to
distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form with such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

   The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation
of the executable. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed
need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or
binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself
accompanies the executable.

   If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to
copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source
code from the same place counts as distribution of the source code, even though
third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

   4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Program
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or any
work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Program or works based on it.

   6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third
parties to this License.

   7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Program at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Program by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Program.

   If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and the
section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

   It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents
or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system, which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

   This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

   8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

   9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar
in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new
problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Program does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose
any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM
"AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and an idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) <yyyy> <name of author>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin
Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author Gnomovision comes with
ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software, and
you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c' for
details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

< signature of Ty Coon > , 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-1.0+

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 1, February 1989

Copyright (C) 1989 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor,
Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The license agreements of most software companies try to keep users at the mercy
of those companies. By contrast, our General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. The General Public License applies to the
Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors
commit to using it. You can use it for your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price.
Specifically, the General Public License is designed to make sure that you have
the freedom to give away or sell copies of free software, that you receive
source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change the software or
use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can do these
things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of a such a program, whether gratis or for
a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must tell them
their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND
MODIFICATION

   0. This License Agreement applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the
terms of this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such
program or work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or
any work containing the Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with
modifications. Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code
as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this General
Public License and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients
of the Program a copy of this General Public License along with the Program. You
may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it,
and copy and distribute such modifications under the terms of Paragraph 1 above,
provided that you also do the following:

      a) cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating that you
changed the files and the date of any change; and

      b) cause the whole of any work that you distribute or publish, that in
whole or in part contains the Program or any part thereof, either with or
without modifications, to be licensed at no charge to all third parties under
the terms of this General Public License (except that you may choose to grant
warranty protection to some or all third parties, at your option).

      c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the simplest
and most usual way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this General Public
License.

      d) You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   Mere aggregation of another independent work with the Program (or its
derivative) on a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the
other work under the scope of these terms.

   3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Paragraph 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Paragraphs 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

      a) accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Paragraphs 1 and 2 above; or,

      b) accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party free (except for a nominal charge for the cost of
distribution) a complete machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code,
to be distributed under the terms of Paragraphs 1 and 2 above; or,

      c) accompany it with the information you received as to where the
corresponding source code may be obtained. (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form alone.)

   Source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable file, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains; but, as a special exception, it need
not include source code for modules which are standard libraries that accompany
the operating system on which the executable file runs, or for standard header
files or definitions files that accompany that operating system.

   4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, distribute or transfer the Program
except as expressly provided under this General Public License. Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, distribute or transfer the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights to use the Program under this
License. However, parties who have received copies, or rights to use copies,
from you under this General Public License will not have their licenses
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   5. By copying, distributing or modifying the Program (or any work based on
the Program) you indicate your acceptance of this license to do so, and all its
terms and conditions.

   6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein.

   7. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar
in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new
problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies a version number of the license which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Program does not specify a version number of the license, you may choose
any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   8. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   9.

   BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   10. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

Appendix: How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to humanity, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) 19yy <name of author>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 1, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave,
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) 19xx name of author Gnomovision comes with
ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software, and
you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c' for
details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here a
sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (a program to direct compilers to make passes at assemblers)
written by James Hacker.

<signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GFDL-1.1+
GNU Free Documentation License

Version 1.1, March 2000

Copyright (C) 2000  Free Software Foundation, Inc.
51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.
0. PREAMBLE

The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other written
document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone the effective
freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without modifying it, either
commercially or noncommercially. Secondarily, this License preserves for the
author and publisher a way to get credit for their work, while not being
considered responsible for modifications made by others.

This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative works of the
document must themselves be free in the same sense. It complements the GNU
General Public License, which is a copyleft license designed for free software.

We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free software,
because free software needs free documentation: a free program should come with
manuals providing the same freedoms that the software does. But this License is
not limited to software manuals; it can be used for any textual work, regardless
of subject matter or whether it is published as a printed book. We recommend
this License principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.

1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS

This License applies to any manual or other work that contains a notice placed
by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed under the terms of this
License. The "Document", below, refers to any such manual or work. Any member of
the public is a licensee, and is addressed as "you".

A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the Document or a
portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with modifications and/or translated
into another language.

A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of the
Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the publishers or
authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject (or to related
matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly within that overall
subject. (For example, if the Document is in part a textbook of mathematics, a
Secondary Section may not explain any mathematics.) The relationship could be a
matter of historical connection with the subject or with related matters, or of
legal, commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding them.

The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles are
designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice that says that
the Document is released under this License.

The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed, as Front-
Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that the Document is
released under this License.

A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy, represented
in a format whose specification is available to the general public, whose
contents can be viewed and edited directly and straightforwardly with generic
text editors or (for images composed of pixels) generic paint programs or (for
drawings) some widely available drawing editor, and that is suitable for input
to text formatters or for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable
for input to text formatters. A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file
format whose markup has been designed to thwart or discourage subsequent
modification by readers is not Transparent. A copy that is not "Transparent" is
called "Opaque".

Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain ASCII without
markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML or XML using a publicly
available DTD, and standard-conforming simple HTML designed for human
modification. Opaque formats include PostScript, PDF, proprietary formats that
can be read and edited only by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for
which the DTD and/or processing tools are not generally available, and the
machine-generated HTML produced by some word processors for output purposes
only.

The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself, plus such
following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material this License
requires to appear in the title page. For works in formats which do not have any
title page as such, "Title Page" means the text near the most prominent
appearance of the work's title, preceding the beginning of the body of the text.

2. VERBATIM COPYING

You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either commercially or
noncommercially, provided that this License, the copyright notices, and the
license notice saying this License applies to the Document are reproduced in all
copies, and that you add no other conditions whatsoever to those of this
License. You may not use technical measures to obstruct or control the reading
or further copying of the copies you make or distribute. However, you may accept
compensation in exchange for copies. If you distribute a large enough number of
copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.

You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and you may
publicly display copies.

3. COPYING IN QUANTITY

If you publish printed copies of the Document numbering more than 100, and the
Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the copies in
covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover Texts: Front-Cover Texts
on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on the back cover. Both covers must
also clearly and legibly identify you as the publisher of these copies. The
front cover must present the full title with all words of the title equally
prominent and visible. You may add other material on the covers in addition.
Copying with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve the title
of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying
in other respects.

If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit legibly, you
should put the first ones listed (as many as fit reasonably) on the actual
cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent pages.

If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering more than
100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent copy along with each
Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy a publicly-accessible
computer-network location containing a complete Transparent copy of the
Document, free of added material, which the general network-using public has
access to download anonymously at no charge using public-standard network
protocols. If you use the latter option, you must take reasonably prudent steps,
when you begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that this
Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location until at
least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque copy (directly or
through your agents or retailers) of that edition to the public.

It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the Document
well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give them a chance to
provide you with an updated version of the Document.

4. MODIFICATIONS

You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under the
conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release the Modified
Version under precisely this License, with the Modified Version filling the role
of the Document, thus licensing distribution and modification of the Modified
Version to whoever possesses a copy of it. In addition, you must do these things
in the Modified Version:

A. Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct from that
of the Document, and from those of previous versions (which should, if there
were any, be listed in the History section of the Document). You may use the
same title as a previous version if the original publisher of that version gives
permission.
B. List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities
responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified Version,
together with at least five of the principal authors of the Document (all of its
principal authors, if it has less than five).
C. State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the Modified Version, as
the publisher.
D. Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.
E. Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications adjacent to the
other copyright notices.
F. Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice giving the
public permission to use the Modified Version under the terms of this License,
in the form shown in the Addendum below.
G. Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections and
required Cover Texts given in the Document's license notice.
H. Include an unaltered copy of this License.
I. Preserve the section entitled "History", and its title, and add to it an item
stating at least the title, year, new authors, and publisher of the Modified
Version as given on the Title Page. If there is no section entitled "History" in
the Document, create one stating the title, year, authors, and publisher of the
Document as given on its Title Page, then add an item describing the Modified
Version as stated in the previous sentence.
J. Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for public
access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise the network locations
given in the Document for previous versions it was based on. These may be placed
in the "History" section. You may omit a network location for a work that was
published at least four years before the Document itself, or if the original
publisher of the version it refers to gives permission.
K. In any section entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications", preserve the
section's title, and preserve in the section all the substance and tone of each
of the contributor acknowledgements and/or dedications given therein.
L. Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document, unaltered in their text
and in their titles. Section numbers or the equivalent are not considered part
of the section titles.
M. Delete any section entitled "Endorsements". Such a section may not be
included in the Modified Version.
N. Do not retitle any existing section as "Endorsements" or to conflict in title
with any Invariant Section.
If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or appendices that
qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material copied from the Document,
you may at your option designate some or all of these sections as invariant. To
do this, add their titles to the list of Invariant Sections in the Modified
Version's license notice. These titles must be distinct from any other section
titles.

You may add a section entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains nothing but
endorsements of your Modified Version by various parties--for example,
statements of peer review or that the text has been approved by an organization
as the authoritative definition of a standard.

You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a passage
of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list of Cover Texts in
the Modified Version. Only one passage of Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover
Text may be added by (or through arrangements made by) any one entity. If the
Document already includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by
you or by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of, you
may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit permission
from the previous publisher that added the old one.

The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License give
permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or imply
endorsement of any Modified Version.

5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS

You may combine the Document with other documents released under this License,
under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified versions, provided that
you include in the combination all of the Invariant Sections of all of the
original documents, unmodified, and list them all as Invariant Sections of your
combined work in its license notice.

The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and multiple
identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single copy. If there are
multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but different contents, make the
title of each such section unique by adding at the end of it, in parentheses,
the name of the original author or publisher of that section if known, or else a
unique number. Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of
Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.

In the combination, you must combine any sections entitled "History" in the
various original documents, forming one section entitled "History"; likewise
combine any sections entitled "Acknowledgements", and any sections entitled
"Dedications". You must delete all sections entitled "Endorsements."

6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS

You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents
released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this License
in the various documents with a single copy that is included in the collection,
provided that you follow the rules of this License for verbatim copying of each
of the documents in all other respects.

You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute it
individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this License into
the extracted document, and follow this License in all other respects regarding
verbatim copying of that document.

7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS

A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate and
independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or distribution
medium, does not as a whole count as a Modified Version of the Document,
provided no compilation copyright is claimed for the compilation. Such a
compilation is called an "aggregate", and this License does not apply to the
other self-contained works thus compiled with the Document, on account of their
being thus compiled, if they are not themselves derivative works of the
Document.

If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these copies of the
Document, then if the Document is less than one quarter of the entire aggregate,
the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on covers that surround only the
Document within the aggregate. Otherwise they must appear on covers around the
whole aggregate.

8. TRANSLATION

Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may distribute
translations of the Document under the terms of section 4. Replacing Invariant
Sections with translations requires special permission from their copyright
holders, but you may include translations of some or all Invariant Sections in
addition to the original versions of these Invariant Sections. You may include a
translation of this License provided that you also include the original English
version of this License. In case of a disagreement between the translation and
the original English version of this License, the original English version will
prevail.

9. TERMINATION

You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except as
expressly provided for under this License. Any other attempt to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Document is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE

The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of the GNU Free
Documentation License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in
spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems
or concerns. See http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.

Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number. If the
Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this License "or any
later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that specified version or of any later version that has
been published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document
does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any version
ever published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.

How to use this License for your documents

To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of the
License in the document and put the following copyright and license notices just
after the title page:

      Copyright (c)  YEAR  YOUR NAME.
      Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
      under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1
      or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
      with the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES, with the
      Front-Cover Texts being LIST, and with the Back-Cover Texts being LIST.
      A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
      Free Documentation License".
If you have no Invariant Sections, write "with no Invariant Sections" instead of
saying which ones are invariant. If you have no Front-Cover Texts, write "no
Front-Cover Texts" instead of "Front-Cover Texts being LIST"; likewise for Back-
Cover Texts.

If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we recommend
releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of free software license,
such as the GNU General Public License, to permit their use in free software.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

You can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
The code can also be used under the LGPL


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSL-1.0

Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by this
license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute, execute, and
transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the Software, and to
permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to do so, all subject to
the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including the
above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer, must be
included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and all derivative
works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative works are solely in the
form of machine-executable object code generated by a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES
OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. The names of its contributors may not be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without specific prior written
permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.

Neither the name of Google nor the names of its contributors may
be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTOR(S) ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTOR(S) BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the MIPS Technologies, Inc., nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE MIPS TECHNOLOGIES, INC. ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE MIPS TECHNOLOGIES, INC. BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the MIPS Technologies, Inc., nor the names of is
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE MIPS TECHNOLOGIES, INC. ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE MIPS TECHNOLOGIES, INC. BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, and the entire permission notice in its entirety,
including the disclaimer of warranties.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without specific prior
written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ALL OF
WHICH ARE HEREBY DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

- Neither the name of the Xiph.org Foundation nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
``AS IS

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification,
 are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

   * Redistribution's of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
     this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

   * Redistribution's in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
     this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
     and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

   * The name of the copyright holders may not be used to endorse or promote
products
     derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

 This software is provided by the copyright holders and contributors "as is" and
 any express or implied warranties, including, but not limited to, the implied
 warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose are
disclaimed.
 In no event shall the Intel Corporation or contributors be liable for any
direct,
 indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages
 (including, but not limited to, procurement of substitute goods or services;
 loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption) however caused
 and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability,
 or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of
 the use of this software, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS `AS IS'
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification,
 are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
    copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
    disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
    with the distribution.

 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
 "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
 LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
 A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
 HOLDER BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
 EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
 PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
 PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
 LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
 NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
 SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

 * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
   list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
 AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
 IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
 ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
 LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
 CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
 SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
 INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
 CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
 ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
 POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-1-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under LGPL-2.0+ or GPL-2.0+, in this context
LGPL-2.0+ has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to
choose either LGPL-2.0+ or GPL-2.0+. For convenience all license texts are
provided

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright notices

copyright (C) 1994-1996, Thomas G. Lane.
Copyright (C) 2012, Collabora Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012, Rafaël Carré (funman@videolanorg)
Copyright (C) 2014-2015, Collabora Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 Matthieu Bouron (matthieu.bouron stupeflix.com)
Copyright (C) 2015, Edward Hervey
Copyright (C) 2015, Matthew Waters (matthew@centricular.com)
Copyright (C) 2015, Sebastian Dröge (sebastian@centricular.com)
copyright: Paris 2010 Adrian Daerr
copyright (c) Sebastien Bechet <s.bechet@av7.net>
copyright (c) 2021-2022 Wu Jianhua <jianhua.wu@intel.com> 
copyright (c) 2021 rcombs
copyright (c) 2021 Wu Jianhua <jianhua.wu@intel.com> 
copyright (c) 2020 Hendrik Leppkes
copyright (c) 2016 rcombs
copyright (c) 2016 Ganesh Ajjanagadde <gajjanag@gmail.com>
copyright (c) 2015 rcombs
copyright (c) 2015 Steve Lhomme
copyright (c) 2015 Rick Kern <kernrj@gmail.com>
copyright (c) 2015 Hendrik Leppkes
copyright (c) 2015 Anton Khirnov <anton@khirnov.net>
copyright (c) 2015 Anton Khirnov
copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics. All rights reserved. Author: Reynaldo H.
Verdejo Pinochet <r.verdejo@sisa.samsung.com>
copyright (c) 2014 - 2015 Hendrik Leppkes
copyright (c) 2013 Yukinori Yamazoe
copyright (c) 2013 Luca Barbato
copyright (c) 2013 Andrew Kelley
copyright (c) 2012 Sebastien Zwickert
copyright (c) 2012 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
copyright (c) 2011 Mashiat Sarker Shakkhar
copyright (c) 2010 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
copyright (c) 2010 Laurent Aimar
copyright (c) 2010 Daniel G. Taylor <dan@programmer-art.org> 
copyright (c) 2009 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
copyright (c) 2009 Michael Niedermayer
copyright (c) 2009 Laurent Aimar
copyright (c) 2008 Paul Kendall <paul@kcbbs.gen.nz>
copyright (c) 2008 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
copyright (c) 2007 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
copyright (c) 2007 Luca Abeni
copyright (c) 2007 Konstantin Shishkov
copyright (c) 2007 Aurelien Jacobs <aurel@gnuage.org>
copyright (c) 2006 Reimar Doeffinger
copyright (c) 2006 Oded Shimon <ods15@ods15.dyndns.org>
copyright (c) 2006 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
copyright (c) 2006 Mans Rullgard
copyright (c) 2006 Konstantin Shishkov
copyright (c) 2006 Baptiste Coudurier <baptiste.coudurier@free.fr>
copyright (c) 2005-2012 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
copyright (c) 2005 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
copyright (c) 2005 Konstantin Shishkov
copyright (c) 2005 Denes Balatoni ( dbalatoni programozo hu )
copyright (c) 2004 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
copyright (c) 2004 Maarten Daniels
copyright (c) 2003 Fabrice Bellard
copyright (c) 2002-2004 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
copyright (c) 2002 The FFmpeg Project
copyright (c) 2002 Remi Guyomarch <rguyom@pobox.com>
copyright (c) 2002 Francois Revol <revol@free.fr>
copyright (c) 2002 Francois Revol
copyright (c) 2002 Falk Hueffner <falk@debian.org>
copyright (c) 2002 Fabrice Bellard
copyright (c) 2001 Juan J. Sierralta P
copyright (c) 2001 Fabrice Bellard
copyright (c) 2000,2001 Fabrice Bellard H.263+ support
copyright (c) 2000,2001 Fabrice Bellard
copyright (c) 2000, 2001, 2002 Fabrice Bellard
copyright (c) 2000 Fabrice Bellard
copyright (C) 2004 Marc Hoffman <marc.hoffman@analog.com>
copyright (C) 2004 Konstantin Shishkov
copyright (C) 1994-1996, Thomas G. Lane. All Rights Reserved 
copyright (C) 1991-1996, Thomas G. Lane. All Rights 
copyright (C) 1991, 1992, Thomas G. Lane. All Rights 
Copyright(C) 2010,2011 Philip Langdale <ffmpeg.philipl@overt.org>
Copyright(C) 2003 Pascal Massimino <skal@planet-d.net>
Copyright(C) 2001 Peter Ross <pross@xvid.org>
Copyright(C) 2000-2001 Peter Gubanov <peter@elecard.net.ru>
Copyright(C) 2000 Michel Lespinasse <walken@zoy.org>
Copyright © 2012 Rafaël Carré
Copyright Vitor Sessak <vitor1001 gmail com>
Copyright Stefano Sabatini <stefasab gmail com>
Copyright Nick Kurshev
Copyright Michael (michaelni@gmx.at)
Copyright Joseph Artsimovich and UAB "DKD"
Copyright Ivo van Poorten
Copyright 2020 Google LLC
Copyright 2018 Jokyo Images
Copyright 2018 Calvin Walton <calvin.walton@kepstin.ca>
Copyright 2017 Steinar H. Gunderson
Copyright 2017 Carl Eugen Hoyos
Copyright 2016 James Almer
Copyright 2016 Anton Khirnov
Copyright 2012 Stefano Sabatini <stefasab gmail com>
Copyright 2012 Robert Nagy <ronag89 gmail com>
Copyright 2012 Nicolas George <nicolas.george normalesup org>
Copyright 2012 Anton Khirnov <anton khirnov net>
Copyright 2011-2014 Twitter, Inc.
Copyright 2011 Stefano Sabatini <stefano.sabatini-lala poste it>
Copyright 2010 Stefano Sabatini <stefano.sabatini-lala poste it>
Copyright 2010 S.N. Hemanth Meenakshisundaram <smeenaks ucsd edu>
Copyright 2010 Mark Nauwelaerts
Copyright 2007 Nokia Corporation
Copyright 2007 Edward Hervey
Copyright 2007 Collabora Ltd, Philippe Kalaf
Copyright 2007 Bobby Bingham
Copyright 2006 Loren Merritt
Copyright 2005-2008 Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation
(CSIRO)
Copyright 2005-2007 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2005 Wim Taymans
Copyright 2005 Balatoni Denes
Copyright 2004-2006 Lennart Poettering
Copyright 2003 EpicGames
Copyright 2002-2008 Xiph.org Foundation
Copyright 2002-2008 Jean-Marc Valin
Copyright 1993, 2002, 2006 David Rowe
Copyright 1992-1994 Jutta Degener, Carsten Bormann
Copyright (c) the FFmpeg developers
Copyright (c) Stefano Sabatini | stefasab at gmail.com
Copyright (c) Stefano Sabatini 2011
Copyright (c) Stefano Sabatini 2010
Copyright (c) Sandflow Consulting LLC
Copyright (c) S.N. Hemanth Meenakshisundaram | smeenaks at ucsd.edu
Copyright (c) Paul B Mahol
Copyright (c) Nick Kurshev <nickols_k@mail.ru>
Copyright (c) Mohamed Naufal <naufal22@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) Markus Schmidt and Christian Holschuh
Copyright (c) Lynne
Copyright (c) Luca Barbato
Copyright (c) Laurent de Soras, 2005
Copyright (c) Jean-Marc Valin
Copyright (c) CMU 1993 Computer Science, Speech Group Chengxiang Lu and Alex
Hauptmann
Copyright (c) Alexandra Hajkova
Copyright (c) 2022 Victoria Zhislina, Intel
Copyright (c) 2022 Thilo Borgmann
Copyright (c) 2022 Pierre-Anthony Lemieux <pal@palemieux.com> Zane van Iperen
<zane@zanevaniperen.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Pierre-Anthony Lemieux <pal@palemieux.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (c) 2022 Niklas Haas 
Copyright (c) 2022 Mohamed Khaled <Mohamed_Khaled_Kamal@outlook.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2022 Mark Gaiser
Copyright (c) 2022 Manoj Gupta Bonda
Copyright (c) 2022 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited Contributed by Shiyou
Yin <yinshiyou-hf@loongson.cn> Hao Chen <chenhao@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2022 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited Contributed by Lu
Wang <wanglu@loongson.cn> Hao Chen <chenhao@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2022 Leo Izen <leo.izen@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Jonathan Swinney <jswinney@amazon.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Jack Bruienne
Copyright (c) 2022 J. Dekker <jdek@itanimul.li>
Copyright (c) 2022 Ben Avison <bavison@riscosopen.org>
Copyright (c) 2022 Ben Avison
Copyright (c) 2022 Andreas Rheinhardt <andreas.rheinhardt@outlook.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 quietvoid
Copyright (c) 2021 parazyd <parazyd@dyne.org>
Copyright (c) 2021 Xuewei Meng
Copyright (c) 2021 Thilo Borgmann <thilo.borgmann _at_ mail.de>
Copyright (c) 2021 The FFmpeg project
Copyright (c) 2021 Peter Ross (pross@xvid.org)
Copyright (c) 2021 Pekka Väänänen <pekka.vaananen@iki.fi>
Copyright (c) 2021 Paul Buxton
Copyright (c) 2021 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (c) 2021 Niklas Haas <ffmpeg@haasn.xyz>
Copyright (c) 2021 Nachiket Tarate
Copyright (c) 2021 Mark Reid <mindmark@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited Contributed by Xiwei
Gu <guxiwei-hf@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2021 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited Contributed by Shiyou
Yin <yinshiyou-hf@loongson.cn> Xiwei Gu <guxiwei-hf@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2021 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited Contributed by Shiyou
Yin <yinshiyou-hf@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2021 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited Contributed by Jin Bo
<jinbo@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2021 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited Contributed by Hecai
Yuan <yuanhecai@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2021 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited Contributed by Hecai
Yuan <yuanhecai@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2021 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited Contributed by Hao
Chen <chenhao@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2021 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited All rights reserved.
Contributed by Shiyou Yin <yinshiyou-hf@loongson.cn> Xiwei Gu <guxiwei-
hf@loongson.cn> Lu Wang <wanglu@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2021 Limin Wang <lance.lmwang at gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Limin Wang
Copyright (c) 2021 Leo Izen <leo.izen@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Josh Dekker
Copyright (c) 2021 James Almer
Copyright (c) 2021 Boris Baracaldo
Copyright (c) 2021 Aidan Richmond
Copyright (c) 2021 24i
Copyright (c) 2020, Gautam Ramakrishnan <gautamramk@gmail.com> All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 Zixing Liu
Copyright (c) 2020 Zhenyu Wang <wangzhenyu@pkusz.edu.cn> Bingjie Han
<hanbj@pkusz.edu.cn> Huiwen Ren <hwrenx@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Yaroslav Pogrebnyak <yyyaroslav@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Vacing Fang <vacingfang@tencent.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Timo Rothenpieler
Copyright (c) 2020 Thilo Borgmann <thilo.borgmann@mail.de>
Copyright (c) 2020 Reimar Döffinger
Copyright (c) 2020 Peter Ross (pross@xvid.org)
Copyright (c) 2020 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (c) 2020 Nicolas George
Copyright (c) 2020 Marton Balint
Copyright (c) 2020 Martin Storsjo
Copyright (c) 2020 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited Gu Xiwei <guxiwei-
hf@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2020 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited Contributed by Shiyou
Yin <yinshiyou-hf@loongson.cn> Gu Xiwei(guxiwei-hf@loongson.cn)
Copyright (c) 2020 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited Contributed by Shiyou
Yin <yinshiyou-hf@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2020 Jun Zhao<barryjzhao@tencent.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Josh Dekker
Copyright (c) 2020 John Stebbins <jstebbins.hb@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Gautam Ramakrishnan
Copyright (c) 2020 FFmpeg
Copyright (c) 2020 David Bryant
Copyright (c) 2020 Andriy Gelman
Copyright (c) 2020 Andreas Rheinhardt <andreas.rheinhardt@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 24i
Copyright (c) 2019-2021 Sebastian Pop <spop@amazon.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 rcombs
Copyright (c) 2019 gxw <guxiwei-hf@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2019 Xuewei Meng
Copyright (c) 2019 Vladimir Panteleev
Copyright (c) 2019 The FFmpeg Project
Copyright (c) 2019 Swaraj Hota
Copyright (c) 2019 Shiyou Yin (yinshiyou-hf@loongson.cn)
Copyright (c) 2019 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (c) 2019 Martin Storsjo <martin@martin.st>
Copyright (c) 2019 Manoj Gupta Bonda
Copyright (c) 2019 Lynne <dev@lynne.ee>
Copyright (c) 2019 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited gxw <guxiwei-
hf@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2019 Jan Ekström
Copyright (c) 2019 James Darnley
Copyright (c) 2019 James Almer <jamrial@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Guo Yejun
Copyright (c) 2019 Eugene Lyapustin
Copyright (c) 2019 Derek Buitenhuis
Copyright (c) 2019 Andriy Gelman
Copyright (c) 2018 gxw <guxiwei-hf@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2018 Yingming Fan <yingmingfan@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Thomas Volkert
Copyright (c) 2018 The FFmpeg Project
Copyright (c) 2018 Sergey Lavrushkin
Copyright (c) 2018 Rostislav Pehlivanov <atomnuker@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Ronald S. Bultje <rsbultje gmail com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (c) 2018 Mohammad Izadi <moh.izadi at gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Mina Sami
Copyright (c) 2018 Marton Balint
Copyright (c) 2018 Magnus Röös <mla2.roos@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited Contributed by Shiyou
Yin <yinshiyou-hf@loongson.cn> Gu Xiwei(guxiwei-hf@loongson.cn)
Copyright (c) 2018 Jokyo Images
Copyright (c) 2018 James Almer <jamrial@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 James Almer <jamrial gmail com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2018 Huiwen Ren <hwrenx@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Gregor Richards
Copyright (c) 2018 Dylan Fernando
Copyright (c) 2018 Danil Iashchenko
Copyright (c) 2018 Clément Bœsch <u pkh me>
Copyright (c) 2018 Chris Johnson
Copyright (c) 2018 Bjorn Roche
Copyright (c) 2018 Akamai Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017-2022 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (c) 2017, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017 sfan5 <sfan5@live.de>
Copyright (c) 2017 samsamsam@o2.pl based on HLS demux
Copyright (c) 2017 Vittorio Giovara <vittorio.giovara@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Tomas Härdin
Copyright (c) 2017 Thomas Mundt <tmundt75@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Steven Liu
Copyright (c) 2017 Savoir-faire Linux, Inc
Copyright (c) 2017 Rostislav Pehlivanov <atomnuker@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Ronald S. Bultje <rsbultje@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Richard Ling
Copyright (c) 2017 Philip Langdale
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (c) 2017 Paras Chadha
Copyright (c) 2017 Mozilla
Copyright (c) 2017 Ming Yang
Copyright (c) 2017 Meng Wang <wangmeng.kids@bytedance.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Matthieu Bouron <matthieu.bouron@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Matthieu Bouron <matthieu.bouron gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Lionel CHAZALLON
Copyright (c) 2017 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (c) 2017 Kaustubh Raste (kaustubh.raste@imgtec.com)
Copyright (c) 2017 Kaixuan Liu
Copyright (c) 2017 Jun Zhao
Copyright (c) 2017 Jokyo Images
Copyright (c) 2017 James Almer
Copyright (c) 2017 Google Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017 Gerion Entrup
Copyright (c) 2017 Clément Bœsch <u@pkh.me>
Copyright (c) 2017 Clément Bœsch <u pkh me>
Copyright (c) 2017 Ashish Pratap Singh <ashk43712@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Anton Khirnov
Copyright (c) 2017 Alexandra Hájková
Copyright (c) 2017 Akamai Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017 Adib Surani
Copyright (c) 2016-2019 Jai Luthra
Copyright (c) 2016 Zhou Xiaoyong <zhouxiaoyong@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2016 William Ma, Ted Ying, Jerry Jiang
Copyright (c) 2016 William Ma, Sofia Kim, Dustin Woo
Copyright (c) 2016 Vittorio Giovara <vittorio.giovara@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Umair Khan <omerjerk@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Tobias Rapp
Copyright (c) 2016 Timo Rothenpieler <timo@rothenpieler.org>
Copyright (c) 2016 Timo Rothenpieler
Copyright (c) 2016 Tiancheng "Timothy" Gu
Copyright (c) 2016 Thomas Volkert <thomas@netzeal.de>
Copyright (c) 2016 Thilo Borgmann
Copyright (c) 2016 The FFmpeg Project
Copyright (c) 2016 Ståle Kristoffersen
Copyright (c) 2016 Savoir-faire Linux, Inc
Copyright (c) 2016 Rostislav Pehlivanov <atomnuker@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Ronald S. Bultje <rsbultje@gmail.com> 
Copyright (c) 2016 Ronald S. Bultje <rsbultje@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 ReneBrals
Copyright (c) 2016 Reimar Döffinger <Reimar.Doeffinger@gmx.de>
Copyright (c) 2016 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (c) 2016 Nicolas George
Copyright (c) 2016 Neil Birkbeck <neil.birkbeck@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Muhammad Faiz <mfcc64@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Mobibase, France (http://www.mobibase.com)
Copyright (c) 2016 Michael Niedermayer <michael@niedermayer.cc>
Copyright (c) 2016 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2016 Matthieu Bouron <matthieu.bouron stupeflix.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Marton Balnt <cus@passwd.hu>
Copyright (c) 2016 Martin Storsjo
Copyright (c) 2016 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited
Copyright (c) 2016 Kyle Swanson <k@ylo.ph>.
Copyright (c) 2016 KongQun Yang (kqyang@google.com)
Copyright (c) 2016 Josh de Kock
Copyright (c) 2016 Jokyo Images
Copyright (c) 2016 Jan Sebechlebsky
Copyright (c) 2016 James Almer
Copyright (c) 2016 Google Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016 Floris Sluiter
Copyright (c) 2016 Davinder Singh (DSM_) <ds.mudhar<@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Clément Bœsch <u pkh me>
Copyright (c) 2016 Clément Bœsch <clement stupeflix.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Anton Khirnov
Copyright (c) 2016 Alexandra Hájková
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 mawen1250
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 Matthieu Bouron <matthieu.bouron stupeflix.com>
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 Kieran Kunhya <kieran@kunhya.com>
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 Florian Nouwt
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 Clément Bœsch <u pkh me>
Copyright (c) 2015, Vignesh Venkatasubramanian
Copyright (c) 2015 rcombs
Copyright (c) 2015 Zhou Xiaoyong <zhouxiaoyong@loongson.cn> Zhang Shuangshuang
<zhangshuangshuang@ict.ac.cn> Heiher <r@hev.cc>
Copyright (c) 2015 Zhou Xiaoyong <zhouxiaoyong@loongson.cn> Zhang Shuangshuang
<zhangshuangshuang@ict.ac.cn>
Copyright (c) 2015 Zhou Xiaoyong <zhouxiaoyong@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2015 Zhang Rui <bbcallen@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Vittorio Giovara <vittorio.giovara@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Vittorio Giovara
Copyright (c) 2015 Vesselin Bontchev
Copyright (c) 2015 Urvang Joshi
Copyright (c) 2015 Timo Rothenpieler <timo@rothenpieler.org>
Copyright (c) 2015 Tiancheng "Timothy" Gu
Copyright (c) 2015 Thomas Volkert <thomas@homer-conferencing.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 The FFmpeg Project
Copyright (c) 2015 Tampere University of Technology
Copyright (c) 2015 Supraja Meedinti
Copyright (c) 2015 Stupeflix
Copyright (c) 2015 Stephan Holljes
Copyright (c) 2015 Shivraj Patil (Shivraj.Patil@imgtec.com) Zhou Xiaoyong
<zhouxiaoyong@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2015 Shivraj Patil (Shivraj.Patil@imgtec.com)
Copyright (c) 2015 Rostislav Pehlivanov ( atomnuker gmail com )
Copyright (c) 2015 Ronald S. Bultje <rsbultje@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Ronald S. Bultje <rsbultje gmail com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Roger Pack
Copyright (c) 2015 Peter Meerwald <pmeerw@pmeerw.net>
Copyright (c) 2015 Paul B. Mahol
Copyright (c) 2015 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (c) 2015 Parag Salasakar (parag.salasakar@imgtec.com) Zhou Xiaoyong
<zhouxiaoyong@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2015 Parag Salasakar (parag.salasakar@imgtec.com)
Copyright (c) 2015 Parag Salasakar (Parag.Salasakar@imgtec.com) Zhou Xiaoyong
<zhouxiaoyong@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2015 Parag Salasakar (Parag.Salasakar@imgtec.com)
Copyright (c) 2015 Niklas Haas
Copyright (c) 2015 Nicolas George
Copyright (c) 2015 Muhammad Faiz <mfcc64@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2015 Matthieu Bouron <matthieu.bouron stupeflix.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Mats Peterson
Copyright (c) 2015 Martin Storsjo
Copyright (c) 2015 Manojkumar Bhosale (Manojkumar.Bhosale@imgtec.com) Zhou
Xiaoyong <zhouxiaoyong@loongson.cn>
Copyright (c) 2015 Manojkumar Bhosale (Manojkumar.Bhosale@imgtec.com)
Copyright (c) 2015 Ludmila Glinskih
Copyright (c) 2015 Luca Barbato <lu_zero@gentoo.org>
Copyright (c) 2015 Luca Barbato
Copyright (c) 2015 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited
Copyright (c) 2015 LoRd_MuldeR <mulder2@gmx.de>. 
Copyright (c) 2015 Kyle Swanson <k@ylo.ph>.
Copyright (c) 2015 Kieran Kunhya
Copyright (c) 2015 Kevin Wheatley <kevin.j.wheatley@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Janne Grunau <janne-libav@jannau.net>b
Copyright (c) 2015 Janne Grunau <janne-libav@jannau.net>
Copyright (c) 2015 Janne Grunau
Copyright (c) 2015 James Darnley
Copyright (c) 2015 James Almer
Copyright (c) 2015 Imagination Technologies Ltd
Copyright (c) 2015 Himangi Saraogi <himangi774@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Henrik Gramner <henrik gramner com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Henrik Gramner
Copyright (c) 2015 Hendrik Leppkes
Copyright (c) 2015 Gilles Chanteperdrix <gch@xenomai.org>
Copyright (c) 2015 Ganesh Ajjanagadde
Copyright (c) 2015 Eran Kornblau <erankor at gmail dot com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Donny Yang
Copyright (c) 2015 Derek Buitenhuis
Copyright (c) 2015 Clément Bœsch <u pkh me>
Copyright (c) 2015 Clément Bœsch <clement stupeflix.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Christophe Gisquet
Copyright (c) 2015 Carl Eugen Hoyos
Copyright (c) 2015 Arwa Arif <arwaarif1994@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Anton Khirnov
Copyright (c) 2015 Anshul Maheshwari
Copyright (c) 2015 Andreas Cadhalpun <Andreas.Cadhalpun@googlemail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 -2017 Parag Salasakar (Parag.Salasakar@imgtec.com)
Copyright (c) 2015 -2017 Manojkumar Bhosale (Manojkumar.Bhosale@imgtec.com)
Copyright (c) 2015 - 2017 Shivraj Patil (Shivraj.Patil@imgtec.com)
Copyright (c) 2015 - 2017 Parag Salasakar (Parag.Salasakar@imgtec.com)
Copyright (c) 2015 - 2017 Manojkumar Bhosale (Manojkumar.Bhosale@imgtec.com)
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 James Almer
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 Muhammad Faiz <mfcc64@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2014 Vittorio Giovara <vittorio.giovara@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Vignesh Venkatasubramanian
Copyright (c) 2014 Tim Walker <tdskywalker@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Tiancheng "Timothy" Gu <timothygu99@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Tiancheng "Timothy" Gu
Copyright (c) 2014 Thomas Volkert <thomas@homer-conferencing.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Thilo Borgmann <thilo.borgmann@mail.de>
Copyright (c) 2014 Supraja Meedinti
Copyright (c) 2014 Stefano Sabatini
Copyright (c) 2014 StarBrilliant <m13253@hotmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Seppo Tomperi <seppo.tomperi@vtt.fi>
Copyright (c) 2014 Rong Yan Copyright (c) 2009 Loren Merritt
Copyright (c) 2014 Rong Yan
Copyright (c) 2014 Ronald S. Bultje <rsbultje@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Reimar Döffinger <Reimar.Doeffinger@gmx.de>
Copyright (c) 2014 Rafaël Carré
Copyright (c) 2014 RISC OS Open Ltd Author: Ben Avison <bavison@riscosopen.org>
Copyright (c) 2014 Pierre-Edouard LEPERE
Copyright (c) 2014 Petri Hintukainen <phintuka@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2014 Peter Ross <pross@xvid.org>
Copyright (c) 2014 Peter Ross
Copyright (c) 2014 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (c) 2014 Oleksij Rempel <linux@rempel-privat.de>
Copyright (c) 2014 Nicolas George
Copyright (c) 2014 Nicolas Bertrand
Copyright (c) 2014 Nicholas Robbins
Copyright (c) 2014 Neil Birkbeck (birkbeck@google.com)
Copyright (c) 2014 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2014 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2014 Marvin Scholz
Copyright (c) 2014 Martin Storsjo
Copyright (c) 2014 Lukasz Marek <lukasz.m.luki@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Lukasz Marek
Copyright (c) 2014 Luca Barbato <lu_zero@gentoo.org>
Copyright (c) 2014 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (c) 2014 Kieran Kunhya <kierank@obe.tv>
Copyright (c) 2014 Janne Grunau <janne-libav@jannau.net>
Copyright (c) 2014 James Yu <james.yu@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2014 James Darnley <james.darnley@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 James Almer <jamrial@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 James Almer <jamrial <at> gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 James Almer
Copyright (c) 2014 Georg Lippitsch <georg.lippitsch@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2014 Eejya Singh
Copyright (c) 2014 Deti Fliegl
Copyright (c) 2014 Derek Buitenhuis
Copyright (c) 2014 Dave Rice @dericed
Copyright (c) 2014 Clément Bœsch <u pkh me>
Copyright (c) 2014 Clément Bœsch
Copyright (c) 2014 Christophe Gisquet
Copyright (c) 2014 Benoit Fouet
Copyright (c) 2014 Barbara Lepage <db0company@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Arwa Arif <arwaarif1994@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Andrey Utkin
Copyright (c) 2014 Andrew Kelley
Copyright (c) 2014 Andreas Cadhalpun
Copyright (c) 2014 Aman Gupta <ffmpeg@tmm1.net>
Copyright (c) 2014 Alexandra Hájková
Copyright (c) 2014 - 2021 Jason Jang
Copyright (c) 2014 - 2015 Seppo Tomperi <seppo.tomperi@vtt.fi>
Copyright (c) 2013-2022 Andreas Unterweger
Copyright (c) 2013-2020 Michael Barbour <barbour.michael.0@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013-2015 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Ramiro Polla, Luca Barbato, Deti Fliegl
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Ramiro Polla
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Mozilla Corporation
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Luca Barbato, Deti Fliegl
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Derek Buitenhuis
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Clément Bœsch
Copyright (c) 2013, The WebRTC project authors. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013, Derek Buitenhuis
Copyright (c) 2013, 2015 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Vittorio Giovara <vittorio.giovara@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Vittorio Giovara
Copyright (c) 2013 Tiancheng "Timothy" Gu
Copyright (c) 2013 Thilo Borgmann <thilo.borgmann _at_ mail.de>
Copyright (c) 2013 The FFmpeg Project
Copyright (c) 2013 Stefano Sabatini
Copyright (c) 2013 Seppo Tomperi
Copyright (c) 2013 Rémi Denis-Courmont
Copyright (c) 2013 Rudolf Polzer <divverent@xonotic.org>
Copyright (c) 2013 Ronald S. Bultje <rsbultje gmail com>
Copyright (c) 2013 RISC OS Open Ltd Author: Ben Avison <bavison@riscosopen.org>
Copyright (c) 2013 RISC OS Open Ltd <bavison@riscosopen.org>
Copyright (c) 2013 Pierre-Edouard LEPERE
Copyright (c) 2013 Philip Langdale
Copyright (c) 2013 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (c) 2013 Oka Motofumi (chikuzen.mo at gmail dot com)
Copyright (c) 2013 Nicolas George
Copyright (c) 2013 Nicolas Bertrand <nicoinattendu@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2013 Maxim Poliakovski
Copyright (c) 2013 Matthew Heaney
Copyright (c) 2013 Marton Balint
Copyright (c) 2013 Martin Storsjo
Copyright (c) 2013 MIPS Technologies, Inc., California.
Copyright (c) 2013 Lukasz Marek <lukasz.m.luki@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Lukasz Marek
Copyright (c) 2013 Luca Barbato
Copyright (c) 2013 Loren Merritt
Copyright (c) 2013 Konstantin Shishkov based on TwinVQ decoder
Copyright (c) 2013 Konstantin Shishkov <kostya.shishkov@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (c) 2013 Justin Ruggles <justin.ruggles@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Jeff Moguillansky
Copyright (c) 2013 Janne Grunau <janne-libav@jannau.net>
Copyright (c) 2013 James Almer
Copyright (c) 2013 Guillaume Martres <smarter@ubuntu.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Georg Martius <georg dot martius at web dot de>
Copyright (c) 2013 Fredrik Mellbin
Copyright (c) 2013 Dirk Farin <dirk.farin@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Diego Biurrun <diego@biurrun.de>
Copyright (c) 2013 Darryl Wallace <wallacdj@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Daniel Verkamp <daniel@drv.nu>
Copyright (c) 2013 Daniel Kang <daniel.d.kang@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Daniel Kang
Copyright (c) 2013 Clément Bœsch <u pkh me>
Copyright (c) 2013 Clément Bœsch
Copyright (c) 2013 Christian Schmidt
Copyright (c) 2013 Anssi Hannula
Copyright (c) 2013 Aneesh Dogra <aneesh@sugarlabs.org>
Copyright (c) 2013 Andrey Utkin <andrey.krieger.utkin gmail com>
Copyright (c) 2013 - 2014 Pierre-Edouard Lepere
Copyright (c) 2012-2019 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (c) 2012-2018 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (c) 2012-2016 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (c) 2012-2014 Clément Bœsch <u pkh me>
Copyright (c) 2012-2014 Christophe Gisquet <christophe.gisquet@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Oka Motofumi (chikuzen.mo at gmail dot com)
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Derek Buitenhuis
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Clément Bœsch <u pkh me>
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Clément Bœsch
Copyright (c) 2012, Luca Barbato
Copyright (c) 2012, Derek Buitenhuis
Copyright (c) 2012, 2016 Ben "GreaseMonkey" Russell
Copyright (c) 2012 Youness Alaoui <kakaroto@kakaroto.homelinux.net>
Copyright (c) 2012 Vitaliy E Sugrobov
Copyright (c) 2012 Steven Robertson
Copyright (c) 2012 Stefano Sabatini
Copyright (c) 2012 Samuel Pitoiset
Copyright (c) 2012 Rudolf Polzer
Copyright (c) 2012 Ronald S. Bultje <rsbultje@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Rob Sykes <robs@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2012 Philip Langdale <philipl@overt.org>
Copyright (c) 2012 Petri Hintukainen <phintuka <at> users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2012 Peter Ross
Copyright (c) 2012 Pavel Koshevoy <pkoshevoy at gmail dot com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (c) 2012 Nicolas George <nicolas.george@normalesup.org>
Copyright (c) 2012 Nicolas George
Copyright (c) 2012 Nathan Caldwell
Copyright (c) 2012 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2012 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2012 Michael Bradshaw <mjbshaw gmail com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Martin Storsjo Based on the GStreamer H.263 Depayloder
Copyright (c) 2012 Martin Storsjo
Copyright (c) 2012 Mans Rullgard <mans@mansr.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Mans Rullgard
Copyright (c) 2012 MIPS Technologies, Inc., California.
Copyright (c) 2012 Luca Barbato
Copyright (c) 2012 Loren Merritt
Copyright (c) 2012 Laurent de Soras
Copyright (c) 2012 Laurent Aimar
Copyright (c) 2012 Krzysztof Klinikowski
Copyright (c) 2012 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (c) 2012 Justin Ruggles <justin.ruggles@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Justin Ruggles
Copyright (c) 2012 Jeremy Tran
Copyright (c) 2012 Jan Ekström
Copyright (c) 2012 James Almer
Copyright (c) 2012 Henrik Gramner
Copyright (c) 2012 Google, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2012 Georg Lippitsch <georg.lippitsch@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2012 Fredrik Mellbin
Copyright (c) 2012 Derek Buitenhuis
Copyright (c) 2012 David Kment
Copyright (c) 2012 Clément Bœsch <u pkh me>
Copyright (c) 2012 Clément Bœsch
Copyright (c) 2012 Christophe Gisquet <christophe.gisquet@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Carl Eugen Hoyos
Copyright (c) 2012 AvxSynth Team
Copyright (c) 2012 Antti Seppälä
Copyright (c) 2012 Anton Khirnov
Copyright (c) 2012 Aneesh Dogra (lionaneesh) <lionaneesh@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Andrey Utkin
Copyright (c) 2012 Andrew D'Addesio
Copyright (c) 2012 Aleksi Nurmi
Copyright (c) 2011-2017 KO Myung-Hun <komh@chollian.net>
Copyright (c) 2011-2014 Peter Ross <pross@xvid.org>
Copyright (c) 2011-2013 James Darnley <james.darnley@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Smartjog S.A.S, Clément Bœsch
<clement.boesch@smartjog.com>
Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (c) 2011,2014 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2011, Luca Barbato
Copyright (c) 2011, 2012 Hyllian/Jararaca <sergiogdb@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011, 2012 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011 Zhentan Feng <spyfeng at gmail dot com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Vladimir Voroshilov
Copyright (c) 2011 Vitor Sessak
Copyright (c) 2011 Thomas Kuehnel
Copyright (c) 2011 Sven Hesse <drmccoy@drmccoy.de>
Copyright (c) 2011 Stefano Sabatini taken from libavfilter/vf_select.c
Copyright (c) 2011 Stefano Sabatini 
Copyright (c) 2011 Stefano Sabatini
Copyright (c) 2011 Smartjog S.A.S, Clément Bœsch <clement.boesch@smartjog.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Ronald S. Bultje <rsbultje@gmail.com> Kieran Kunhya
<kieran@kunhya.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Ronald S. Bultje <rsbultje@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Roger Pau Monné <roger.pau@entel.upc.edu>
Copyright (c) 2011 Reinhard Tartler
Copyright (c) 2011 Reimar Döffinger
Copyright (c) 2011 Peter Ross (pross@xvid.org)
Copyright (c) 2011 Peter Ross <pross@xvid.org> 
Copyright (c) 2011 Peter Ross <pross@xvid.org>
Copyright (c) 2011 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (c) 2011 Pascal Getreuer
Copyright (c) 2011 Oskar Arvidsson
Copyright (c) 2011 Nicolas George <nicolas.george@normalesup.org>
Copyright (c) 2011 Nicolas George
Copyright (c) 2011 MirriAd Ltd
Copyright (c) 2011 Miroslav Slugeň <Thunder.m@seznam.cz>
Copyright (c) 2011 Mina Nagy Zaki
Copyright (c) 2011 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2011 Michael Karcher
Copyright (c) 2011 Michael Bradshaw <mjbshaw gmail com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Max Horn
Copyright (c) 2011 Matthew Hoops <clone2727@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Mashiat Sarker Shakkhar
Copyright (c) 2011 Martin Storsjo
Copyright (c) 2011 Mark Himsley
Copyright (c) 2011 Mans Rullgard <mans@mansr.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Mans Rullgard
Copyright (c) 2011 Luca Barbato <lu_zero@gentoo.org>
Copyright (c) 2011 Loren Merritt <lorenm@u.washington.edu>
Copyright (c) 2011 Konstantin Shishkov based on work by Vladimir "VAG" Gneushev
Copyright (c) 2011 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (c) 2011 Kieran Kunhya <kieran@kunhya.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Justin Ruggles <justin.ruggles@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Justin Ruggles
Copyright (c) 2011 Juan Carlos Rodriguez <ing.juancarlosrodriguez@hotmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Jonathan Baldwin
Copyright (c) 2011 Janne Grunau <janne-libav@jannau.net>
Copyright (c) 2011 Janne Grunau
Copyright (c) 2011 Jan Kokemüller
Copyright (c) 2011 Derek Buitenhuis
Copyright (c) 2011 Daniel Kang
Copyright (c) 2011 Clément Bœsch <u pkh me>
Copyright (c) 2011 Carl Eugen Hoyos
Copyright (c) 2011 Baptiste Coudurier
Copyright (c) 2011 Anton Khirnov <anton@khirnov.net>
Copyright (c) 2011 Anton Khirnov
Copyright (c) 2011 Andreas Öman
Copyright (c) 2011 Anatoly Nenashev
Copyright (c) 2011 Anatoliy Wasserman
Copyright (c) 2011 - 2012 Mashiat Sarker Shakkhar
Copyright (c) 2010-2013 Maxim Poliakovski
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Peter Ross <pross@xvid.org>
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Maxim Poliakovski
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Elvis Presley
Copyright (c) 2010, Google, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010, 2020 Anssi Hannula
Copyright (c) 2010 Zhentan Feng <spyfeng at gmail dot com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Vitor Sessak
Copyright (c) 2010 Tomas Härdin
Copyright (c) 2010 Thilo Borgmann <thilo.borgmann _at_ mail.de>
Copyright (c) 2010 Stefano Sabatini 
Copyright (c) 2010 Stefano Sabatini
Copyright (c) 2010 Sebastian Vater <cdgs.basty@googlemail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 S.N. Hemanth Meenakshisundaram <smeenaks@ucsd.edu>
Copyright (c) 2010 S.N. Hemanth Meenakshisundaram
Copyright (c) 2010 Ronald S. Bultje <rsbultje@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Ronald S. Bultje
Copyright (c) 2010 Rob Clark <rob@ti.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Reimar Döffinger <Reimar.Doeffinger@gmx.de>
Copyright (c) 2010 Reimar Döffinger
Copyright (c) 2010 Ramiro Polla
Copyright (c) 2010 Rafael Carre
Copyright (c) 2010 Peter Ross (pross@xvid.org)
Copyright (c) 2010 Peter Ross <pross@xvid.org>
Copyright (c) 2010 Peter Ross
Copyright (c) 2010 Nolan Lum <nol888@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Niel van der Westhuizen <nielkie@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Nicolas George
Copyright (c) 2010 Mohamed Naufal Basheer
Copyright (c) 2010 Michele Orrù
Copyright (c) 2010 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2010 Michael Chinen
Copyright (c) 2010 Martin Storsjo
Copyright (c) 2010 Mark Heath mjpeg0 @ silicontrip dot org
Copyright (c) 2010 Marcelo Galvao Povoa
Copyright (c) 2010 Mans Rullgard <mans@mansr.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Mans Rullgard
Copyright (c) 2010 Loren Merritt
Copyright (c) 2010 Kenneth Vermeirsch
Copyright (c) 2010 Josh Allmann
Copyright (c) 2010 Janne Grunau <janne-libav@jannau.net>
Copyright (c) 2010 Jacob Meuser
Copyright (c) 2010 Howard Chu
Copyright (c) 2010 Holger Lubitz
Copyright (c) 2010 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Gordon Schmidt <gordon.schmidt <at> s2000.tu-chemnitz.de>
Copyright (c) 2010 Google, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010 Google Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010 Francesco Lavra <francescolavra@interfree.it>
Copyright (c) 2010 Fiona Glaser <fiona@x264.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Fiona Glaser
Copyright (c) 2010 Fabrice Bellard Romain Degez
Copyright (c) 2010 David Conrad
Copyright (c) 2010 Daniel Verkamp
Copyright (c) 2010 Carl Eugen Hoyos
Copyright (c) 2010 Brandon Mintern
Copyright (c) 2010 Bobby Bingham
Copyright (c) 2010 Baptiste Coudurier
Copyright (c) 2010 Aurelien Jacobs <aurel@gnuage.org>
Copyright (c) 2010 Anton Khirnov
Copyright (c) 2010 Anssi Hannula <anssi.hannula at iki.fi>
Copyright (c) 2010 Andrzej Szombierski
Copyright (c) 2010 Anatoly Nenashev
Copyright (c) 2010 Alexander Strange <astrange@ithinksw.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Alex Converse <alex.converse@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Adrian Daerr and Nicolas George
Copyright (c) 2009-2013 Maxim Poliakovski
Copyright (c) 2009-2011 Maxim Poliakovski
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Maxim Poliakovski
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Howard Chu
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Alex Converse <alex.converse@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009, 2013 Christian Schmidt
Copyright (c) 2009, 2011 Sebastian Gesemann. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009 Xuggle Incorporated
Copyright (c) 2009 Vitor Sessak
Copyright (c) 2009 Toshimitsu Kimura
Copyright (c) 2009 Tobias Bindhammer
Copyright (c) 2009 Thilo Borgmann <thilo.borgmann _at_ mail.de>
Copyright (c) 2009 Stephen Backway
Copyright (c) 2009 Stefano Sabatini
Copyright (c) 2009 Stefan Gehrer <stefan.gehrer@gmx.de>
Copyright (c) 2009 Samalyse Author: Olivier Guilyardi <olivier samalyse com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Samalyse
Copyright (c) 2009 Ronald S. Bultje
Copyright (c) 2009 Robert Swain ( rob opendot cl )
Copyright (c) 2009 Rob Sykes <robs@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2009 Reimar Döffinger, based on crcenc (c) 2002 Fabrice Bellard
Copyright (c) 2009 Reimar Döffinger <Reimar.Doeffinger@gmx.de>
Copyright (c) 2009 Reimar Doeffinger <Reimar.Doeffinger@gmx.de>
Copyright (c) 2009 Ramiro Polla
Copyright (c) 2009 Peter Ross <pross@xvid.org>
Copyright (c) 2009 Peter Ross
Copyright (c) 2009 Peter Holik
Copyright (c) 2009 Nicolas Martin (martinic at iro dot umontreal dot ca) Edouard
Auvinet
Copyright (c) 2009 Nathan Caldwell <saintdev (at) gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Naotoshi Nojiri
Copyright (c) 2009 Michael Tison
Copyright (c) 2009 Michael Niedermayer Author: Olivier Guilyardi <olivier
samalyse com> Michael Niedermayer <michaelni gmx at>
Copyright (c) 2009 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2009 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2009 Maxim Poliakovski
Copyright (c) 2009 Martin Storsjo
Copyright (c) 2009 Mans Rullgard <mans@mansr.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Luca Abeni
Copyright (c) 2009 Loren Merritt <lorenm@u.washington.edu>
Copyright (c) 2009 Loren Merritt
Copyright (c) 2009 Kostya Shishkov
Copyright (c) 2009 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (c) 2009 Kenan Gillet
Copyright (c) 2009 Justin Ruggles
Copyright (c) 2009 Jimmy Christensen
Copyright (c) 2009 James Darnley
Copyright (c) 2009 Jaikrishnan Menon <realityman@gmx.net>
Copyright (c) 2009 Giliard B. de Freitas <giliarde@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Fiona Glaser
Copyright (c) 2009 David Conrad <lessen42@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 David Conrad
Copyright (c) 2009 Daniel Verkamp (daniel@drv.nu)
Copyright (c) 2009 Daniel Verkamp <daniel@drv.nu>
Copyright (c) 2009 Daniel Verkamp <daniel at drv.nu>
Copyright (c) 2009 Daniel Verkamp
Copyright (c) 2009 Colin McQuillian
Copyright (c) 2009 Colin McQuillan
Copyright (c) 2009 Bjorn Axelsson
Copyright (c) 2009 Benjamin Larsson
Copyright (c) 2009 Bartlomiej Wolowiec
Copyright (c) 2009 Baptiste Coudurier <baptiste.coudurier@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Baptiste Coudurier <baptiste dot coudurier at gmail dot com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Aurelien Jacobs <aurel@gnuage.org>
Copyright (c) 2009 Andrej Stepanchuk
Copyright (c) 2009 Alex Converse <alex.converse@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Alex Converse <alex dot converse at gmail dot com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Alex Converse
Copyright (c) 2009 - 2011 Maxim Poliakovski
Copyright (c) 2008-9 robs@users.sourceforge.net
Copyright (c) 2008-2013 Alex Converse <alex.converse@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2008-2011 Octasic Inc.
Copyright (c) 2008-2010 Stefano Sabatini
Copyright (c) 2008-2010 Peter Ross (pross@xvid.org)
Copyright (c) 2008-2010 Paul Kendall <paul@kcbbs.gen.nz>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Robert Swain ( rob opendot cl )
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Rob Sykes <robs@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Gregory Maxwell
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Andrej Stepanchuk
Copyright (c) 2008, 2013 Maxim Poliakovski 2008 Benjamin Larsson 2011 David
Goldwich
Copyright (c) 2008 vmrsss
Copyright (c) 2008 robs@users.sourceforge.net
Copyright (c) 2008 Vladimir Voroshilov
Copyright (c) 2008 Vitor Sessak
Copyright (c) 2008 Victor Paesa
Copyright (c) 2008 Sisir Koppaka
Copyright (c) 2008 Siarhei Siamashka <ssvb@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2008 Sascha Sommer (saschasommer@freenet.de)
Copyright (c) 2008 Ronald S. Bultje
Copyright (c) 2008 Robert Swain
Copyright (c) 2008 Robert Marston
Copyright (c) 2008 Rob Sykes
Copyright (c) 2008 Reimar Döffinger
Copyright (c) 2008 Ramiro Polla <ramiro.polla@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Ramiro Polla
Copyright (c) 2008 Peter Ross
Copyright (c) 2008 NVIDIA
Copyright (c) 2008 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2008 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2008 Mans Rullgard <mans@mansr.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Luca Abeni
Copyright (c) 2008 Loren Merritt <lorenm@u.washington.edu>
Copyright (c) 2008 Loren Merritt
Copyright (c) 2008 Loren Merrit <lorenm@u.washington.edu>
Copyright (c) 2008 Laurent Aimar <fenrir@videolan.org>
Copyright (c) 2008 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (c) 2008 Justin Ruggles
Copyright (c) 2008 Jaikrishnan Menon <realityman@gmx.net>
Copyright (c) 2008 Ivo van Poorten
Copyright (c) 2008 Gregory Montoir (cyx@users.sourceforge.net)
Copyright (c) 2008 GUCAS, Zhentan Feng <spyfeng at gmail dot com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Benjamin Larsson
Copyright (c) 2008 Bartlomiej Wolowiec
Copyright (c) 2008 Baptiste Coudurier <baptiste.coudurier@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Baptiste Coudurier <baptiste.coudurier@free.fr>
Copyright (c) 2008 Baptiste Coudurier <baptiste dot coudurier at gmail dot com>
Copyright (c) 2008 BBC, Anuradha Suraparaju <asuraparaju@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Aurelien Jacobs <aurel@gnuage.org>
Copyright (c) 2008 Alexander Strange (astrange@ithinksw.com)
Copyright (c) 2008 Alexander Strange <astrange@ithinksw.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Alessandro Sappia
Copyright (c) 2008 Affine Systems, Inc (Michael Sullivan, Bobby Impollonia)
Copyright (c) 2008 Adam Gashlin
Copyright (c) 2008 - 2011 Sascha Sommer, Benjamin Larsson
Copyright (c) 2008 - 2009 Sascha Sommer
Copyright (c) 2007-2016 David Robillard <http://drobilla.net>
Copyright (c) 2007-2013 Stefano Sabatini
Copyright (c) 2007-2011 Peter Ross (pross@xvid.org)
Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Stefano Sabatini
Copyright (c) 2007-2009 Xiph.Org Foundation
Copyright (c) 2007-2009 Peter Ross <pross@xvid.org>
Copyright (c) 2007-2009 Peter Ross
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Vladimir Voroshilov
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Peter Ross <pross@xvid.org>
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Peter Ross
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Marco Gerards <marco@gnu.org>
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Ian Caulfield 2009 Ramiro Polla
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Ian Caulfield
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 CSIRO
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Bartlomiej Wolowiec <bartek.wolowiec@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2007, Callum Lerwick <seg@haxxed.com>
Copyright (c) 2007, 2008 Ivo van Poorten
Copyright (c) 2007 a840bda5870ba11f19698ff6eb9581dfb0f95fa5,
539459aeb7d425140b62a3ec7dbf6dc8e408a306, and
520e17cd55896441042b14df2566a6eb610ed444
Copyright (c) 2007 Wolfram Gloger
Copyright (c) 2007 Vladimir Voroshilov
Copyright (c) 2007 Vitor Sessak
Copyright (c) 2007 The FFmpeg Project
Copyright (c) 2007 SmartJog S.A., Baptiste Coudurier <baptiste dot coudurier at
smartjog dot com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Siarhei Siamashka <ssvb@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2007 Ronald S. Bultje <rbultje@ronald.bitfreak.net>
Copyright (c) 2007 Ronald S. Bultje
Copyright (c) 2007 Rob Sykes <robs@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2007 Reynaldo H. Verdejo Pinochet (QCELP decoder)
Copyright (c) 2007 Reynaldo H. Verdejo Pinochet
Copyright (c) 2007 Reimar Döffinger
Copyright (c) 2007 Reimar Doeffinger 
Copyright (c) 2007 Reimar Doeffinger
Copyright (c) 2007 Peter Ross
Copyright (c) 2007 Nicolas George <nicolas.george@normalesup.org>
Copyright (c) 2007 Nicholas Tung
Copyright (c) 2007 Måns Rullgård
Copyright (c) 2007 Mike Melanson, Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (c) 2007 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2007 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2007 Marco Gerards <marco@gnu.org>
Copyright (c) 2007 Marco Gerards
Copyright (c) 2007 Mans Rullgard <mans@mansr.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Mans Rullgard
Copyright (c) 2007 Luca Barbato <lu_zero@gentoo.org>
Copyright (c) 2007 Luca Abeni ( lucabe72 email it )
Copyright (c) 2007 Luca Abeni
Copyright (c) 2007 Loren Merritt
Copyright (c) 2007 Loic Minier <lool at dooz.org> Benjamin Larsson
Copyright (c) 2007 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (c) 2007 Kamil Nowosad
Copyright (c) 2007 Justin Ruggles <justin.ruggles@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Justin Ruggles
Copyright (c) 2007 Ivo van Poorten
Copyright (c) 2007 Ian Caulfield
Copyright (c) 2007 David Conrad
Copyright (c) 2007 Christophe GISQUET <christophe.gisquet@free.fr>
Copyright (c) 2007 Christian Ohm, 2008 Eli Friedman
Copyright (c) 2007 Bobby Bingham
Copyright (c) 2007 Björn Axelsson
Copyright (c) 2007 Benoit Fouet ( benoit fouet free fr )
Copyright (c) 2007 Benoit Fouet <benoit.fouet@free.fr>
Copyright (c) 2007 Benoit Fouet
Copyright (c) 2007 Benjamin Zores <ben@geexbox.org> based upon libdemac from
Dave Chapman.
Copyright (c) 2007 Bartlomiej Wolowiec <bartek.wolowiec@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Bartlomiej Wolowiec
Copyright (c) 2007 Baptiste Coudurier, Benjamin Larsson, Ulion
Copyright (c) 2007 Baptiste Coudurier <baptiste dot coudurier at smartjog dot
com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Baptiste Coudurier <baptiste dot coudurier at free dot fr>
Copyright (c) 2007 Baptiste Coudurier
Copyright (c) 2007 Aurelien Jacobs <aurel@gnuage.org>
Copyright (c) 2007 Anssi Hannula <anssi.hannula@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2006-2013 Maxim Poliakovski
Copyright (c) 2006-2011 Justin Ruggles <justin.ruggles@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2006-2010 Prakash Punnoor <prakash@punnoor.de>
Copyright (c) 2006-2010 Justin Ruggles <justin.ruggles@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2006-2009 Justin Ruggles
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Rob Sykes <robs@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Ramiro Polla
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Peter Ross
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Maxim Poliakovski
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Benjamin Larsson
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Robert Swain
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Maxim Poliakovski
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Maxim Gavrilov ( maxim.gavrilov gmail com )
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Benjamin Larsson
Copyright (c) 2006,2011 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (c) 2006,2008 Peter Ross
Copyright (c) 2006,2007 Ryan Martell
Copyright (c) 2006, 2008 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (c) 2006, 2007 Michel Bardiaux <mbardiaux@mediaxim.be>
Copyright (c) 2006, 2007 Michel Bardiaux
Copyright (c) 2006 Xiaogang Zhang
Copyright (c) 2006 Thijs Vermeir <thijs.vermeir@barco.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 The FFmpeg Project
Copyright (c) 2006 Steve Lhomme
Copyright (c) 2006 Stefan Gehrer <stefan.gehrer@gmx.de>
Copyright (c) 2006 Smartjog S.A.S, Baptiste Coudurier
<baptiste.coudurier@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 SmartJog S.A., Baptiste Coudurier <baptiste dot coudurier at
smartjog dot com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Ryan Martell. (rdm4@martellventures.com)
Copyright (c) 2006 Ryan Martell <rdm4@martellventures.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Ryan Martell
Copyright (c) 2006 Roman Shaposhnik
Copyright (c) 2006 Rob Sykes <robs@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2006 Reynaldo H. Verdejo Pinochet
Copyright (c) 2006 Reimar Doeffinger
Copyright (c) 2006 Peter Ross
Copyright (c) 2006 Paul Richards <paul.richards@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Patrick Guimond
Copyright (c) 2006 Oded Shimon <ods15@ods15.dyndns.org>
Copyright (c) 2006 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at> et al
Copyright (c) 2006 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2006 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2006 Mans Rullgard <mans@mansr.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Luca Barbato <lu_zero@gentoo.org>
Copyright (c) 2006 Luca Abeni
Copyright (c) 2006 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (c) 2006 Kartikey Mahendra BHATT (bhattkm at gmail dot com)
Copyright (c) 2006 Justin Ruggles <justin.ruggles@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Julian Hall
Copyright (c) 2006 John Maddock 
Copyright (c) 2006 Ivo van Poorten
Copyright (c) 2006 Industrial Light & Magic, a division of Lucas Digital Ltd.
LLC
Copyright (c) 2006 Gregory Montoir (cyx@users.sourceforge.net)
Copyright (c) 2006 Daniel Maas <dmaas@maasdigital.com> Funded by BBC Research &
Development
Copyright (c) 2006 Daniel Maas <dmaas@maasdigital.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Cyril Zorin
Copyright (c) 2006 Benjamin Larsson
Copyright (c) 2006 Baptiste Coudurier <baptiste.coudurier@smartjog.com> Mans
Rullgard <mans@mansr.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Baptiste Coudurier <baptiste.coudurier@smartjog.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Baptiste Coudurier <baptiste.coudurier@free.fr>
Copyright (c) 2006 Baptiste Coudurier
Copyright (c) 2006 Aurelien Jacobs <aurel@gnuage.org>
Copyright (c) 2006 Alex Beregszaszi
Copyright (c) 2005-2014 Rich Felker, et al.
Copyright (c) 2005-2012 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2005-2010, 2012 Wolfram Gloger
Copyright (c) 2005-2009 Xiph.Org Foundation
Copyright (c) 2005-2008 Mans Rullgard
Copyright (c) 2005-2008 Diego Biurrun
Copyright (c) 2005-2006 Robert Edele <yartrebo@earthlink.net>
Copyright (c) 2005-2006 Oded Shimon ( ods15 ods15 dyndns org )
Copyright (c) 2005, Herve Drolon, FreeImage Team
Copyright (c) 2005, 2011 Peter Ross <pross@xvid.org>
Copyright (c) 2005 by Neal Symms (tivo@freakinzoo.com) - February 2005 based on
code by Christopher Wingert for tivo-mplayer tivo(at)wingert.org, February 2003
Copyright (c) 2005 Zoltan Hidvegi <hzoli -a- hzoli -d- com>, 2005-2008 Loren
Merritt
Copyright (c) 2005 Wolfram Gloger
Copyright (c) 2005 Vidar Madsen
Copyright (c) 2005 VLC authors and VideoLAN
Copyright (c) 2005 Steve Underwood <steveu at coppice.org>
Copyright (c) 2005 Roine Gustafsson
Copyright (c) 2005 Roberto Togni
Copyright (c) 2005 Robert Edele <yartrebo@earthlink.net>
Copyright (c) 2005 Reimar Döffinger
Copyright (c) 2005 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2005 Mans Rullgard
Copyright (c) 2005 Luca Barbato <lu_zero@gentoo.org>
Copyright (c) 2005 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (c) 2005 Jeff Muizelaar
Copyright (c) 2005 Ian Caulfield
Copyright (c) 2005 Francois Revol
Copyright (c) 2005 Fabrice Bellard
Copyright (c) 2005 Eric Lasota
Copyright (c) 2005 DivX, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2005 David Hammerton
Copyright (c) 2005 Boðaç Topaktaþ
Copyright (c) 2005 Benjamin Larsson
Copyright (c) 2005 Alex Beregszaszi
Copyright (c) 2005 Alban Bedel <albeu@free.fr>
Copyright (c) 2004-2012 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2004-2011 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2004-2008 Marko Kreen
Copyright (c) 2004-2007 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2004-2006 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2004-2005 Michael Niedermayer, Loren Merritt
Copyright (c) 2004 Ville Saari
Copyright (c) 2004 Tobias Diedrich
Copyright (c) 2004 The FFmpeg project
Copyright (c) 2004 The FFmpeg Project
Copyright (c) 2004 Roman Shaposhnik
Copyright (c) 2004 Romain Dolbeau <romain@dolbeau.org>
Copyright (c) 2004 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2004 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2004 Maarten Daniels
Copyright (c) 2004 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (c) 2004 Gildas Bazin <gbazin at videolan dot org>
Copyright (c) 2004 Denes Balatoni.
Copyright (c) 2004 Alex Beregszaszi
Copyright (c) 2004 Adam Thayer <krevnik@comcast.net>
Copyright (c) 2004 AGAWA Koji <i (AT) atty (DOT) jp>
Copyright (c) 2003-2016 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2003-2013 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2003-2013 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2003-2013 Loren Merritt
Copyright (c) 2003-2012 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2003-2011 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2003-2010 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2003-2008 The FFmpeg Project
Copyright (c) 2003-2007, Francois-Olivier Devaux and Antonin Descampe
Copyright (c) 2003-2004 The FFmpeg project
Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Romain Dolbeau <romain@dolbeau.org>
Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Romain Dolbeau
Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2003 Tobias Diedrich
Copyright (c) 2003 Tinic Uro
Copyright (c) 2003 Thomas Raivio
Copyright (c) 2003 The FFmpeg project
Copyright (c) 2003 The FFmpeg Project
Copyright (c) 2003 Sascha Sommer
Copyright (c) 2003 Roman Shaposhnik
Copyright (c) 2003 Romain Dolbeau <romain@dolbeau.org>
Copyright (c) 2003 Rich Felker
Copyright (c) 2003 Nick Kurshev 
Copyright (c) 2003 Mike Melanson <melanson@pcisys.net>
Copyright (c) 2003 Michel Bardiaux
Copyright (c) 2003 Michael Zucchi <notzed@ximian.com>
Copyright (c) 2003 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2003 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2003 LeFunGus, lefungus@altern.org
Copyright (c) 2003 International Business Machines, Corp.
Copyright (c) 2003 Gustavo Sverzut Barbieri <gsbarbieri@yahoo.com.br>
Copyright (c) 2003 Fabrice Bellard
Copyright (c) 2003 Ewald Snel
Copyright (c) 2003 Donnie Smith
Copyright (c) 2003 Donald A. Graft
Copyright (c) 2003 Daniel Moreno <comac AT comac DOT darktech DOT org>
Copyright (c) 2003 Alex Beregszaszi
Copyright (c) 2002-2014 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2002-2013 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2002-2012 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2002-2010 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2002-2007, Professor Benoit Macq
Copyright (c) 2002-2007, Communications and Remote Sensing Laboratory,
Universite catholique de Louvain (UCL), Belgium
Copyright (c) 2002-2007 The FFmpeg Project
Copyright (c) 2002-2006 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2002-2004 Roberto Togni
Copyright (c) 2002-2004 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2002-2004 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2002-2004 Maxim Poliakovski
Copyright (c) 2002-2003, Yannick Verschueren
Copyright (c) 2002-2003 Fabrice Bellard
Copyright (c) 2002-2003 Brian J. Murrell
Copyright (c) 2002, 2003 Fabrice Bellard
Copyright (c) 2002 Zdenek Kabelac <kabi@informatics.muni.cz>
Copyright (c) 2002 The Xine project
Copyright (c) 2002 The FFmpeg project
Copyright (c) 2002 The FFmpeg Project
Copyright (c) 2002 Steve O'Hara-Smith based on Linux video grab interface
Copyright (c) 2002 Naoki Shibata
Copyright (c) 2002 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2002 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (c) 2002 Mark Hills <mark@pogo.org.uk>
Copyright (c) 2002 Lennert Buytenhek <buytenh@gnu.org>
Copyright (c) 2002 Laszlo Torok <torokl@alpha.dfmk.hu>
Copyright (c) 2002 Jindrich Makovicka <makovick@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2002 Francois Revol <revol@free.fr>
Copyright (c) 2002 Francois Revol
Copyright (c) 2002 Falk Hueffner <falk@debian.org>
Copyright (c) 2002 Fabrice Bellard Partly based on libdjbfft by D. J. Bernstein
Copyright (c) 2002 Fabrice Bellard
Copyright (c) 2002 Dieter Shirley
Copyright (c) 2002 Brian Foley
Copyright (c) 2002 Anders Johansson <ajh@atri.curtin.edu.au>
Copyright (c) 2002 Alex Beregszaszi
Copyright (c) 2002 A'rpi 
Copyright (c) 2002 A'rpi
Copyright (c) 2001-2014, Jim Teeuwen
Copyright (c) 2001-2010 Vladimir Sadovnikov
Copyright (c) 2001-2010 Krzysztof Foltman, Markus Schmidt, Thor Harald Johansen,
Vladimir Sadovnikov and others
Copyright (c) 2001-2010 Krzysztof Foltman, Markus Schmidt, Thor Harald Johansen,
Damien Zammit and others
Copyright (c) 2001-2010 Krzysztof Foltman, Markus Schmidt, Thor Harald Johansen
and others
Copyright (c) 2001-2003, David Janssens
Copyright (c) 2001-2003 The FFmpeg project
Copyright (c) 2001-2003 BERO <bero@geocities.co.jp>
Copyright (c) 2001,2003 BERO
Copyright (c) 2001, 2002, 2003 Fabrice Bellard
Copyright (c) 2001, 2002 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2001, 2002 Fabrice Bellard
Copyright (c) 2001 Michel Lespinasse
Copyright (c) 2001 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2001 Lionel Ulmer (lionel.ulmer@free.fr / bbrox@bbrox.org)
Copyright (c) 2001 Lionel Ulmer
Copyright (c) 2001 Juan J. Sierralta P
Copyright (c) 2001 Heikki Leinonen
Copyright (c) 2001 Fabrice Bellard.
Copyright (c) 2001 Fabrice Bellard (original AU code)
Copyright (c) 2001 Fabrice Bellard
Copyright (c) 2001 FFmpeg project
Copyright (c) 2001 Donald A. Graft
Copyright (c) 2001 Chris Bagwell
Copyright (c) 2000-2003 Fabrice Bellard
Copyright (c) 2000-2002 Fabrice Bellard
Copyright (c) 2000-2001 Fabrice Bellard <fabrice@bellard.org>
Copyright (c) 2000,2001 Fabrice Bellard H.263+ support.
Copyright (c) 2000,2001 Fabrice Bellard
Copyright (c) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 Fabrice Bellard
Copyright (c) 2000, 2001, 2002 Fabrice Bellard
Copyright (c) 2000, 2001 Fabrice Bellard and
Copyright (c) 2000, 2001 Fabrice Bellard
Copyright (c) 2000 the FFmpeg Project
Copyright (c) 2000 John Walker
Copyright (c) 2000 Fabrice Bellard
Copyright (c) 2000 Fabien COELHO <fabien@coelho.net>
Copyright (c) 2000 Edward Beingessner And Sundry Contributors. 
Copyright (c) 2000 Chris Ausbrooks <weed@bucket.pp.ualr.edu>
Copyright (c) 1999 Roger Hardiman
Copyright (c) 1999 Nick Bailey
Copyright (c) 1999 Chris Bagwell
Copyright (c) 1998 Juergen Mueller And Sundry Contributors 
Copyright (c) 1998 - 2009 Conifer Software
Copyright (c) 1997-2001 ZSNES Team ( zsknight@zsnes.com / _demo_@zsnes.com )
Copyright (c) 1996-2002 Gerd Knorr
Copyright (c) 1990 James Ashton - Sydney University
Copyright (C) Wilbert Dijkhof
Copyright (C) 2022 Zhao Zhili, <zhilizhao@tencent.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Andreas Rheinhardt
Copyright (C) 2021 Zane van Iperen (zane@zanevaniperen.com)
Copyright (C) 2021 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (C) 2021 Niklas Haas
Copyright (C) 2021 Jan Ekström
Copyright (C) 2020 Zane van Iperen (zane@zanevaniperen.com)
Copyright (C) 2020 Huiwen Ren, <hwrenx@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Alyssa Milburn <amilburn@zall.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Peter Ross
Copyright (C) 2019 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (C) 2019 Leo Zhang <leozhang@qiyi.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Yiqun Xu, <yiqun.xu@vipl.ict.ac.cn> Falei Luo,
<falei.luo@gmail.com> Huiwen Ren, <hwrenx@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Stephen Seo
Copyright (C) 2018 Philip Langdale <philipl@overt.org> 2020 Aman Karmani
<aman@tmm1.net> 2020 Stefan Dyulgerov <stefan.dyulgerov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Philip Langdale <philipl@overt.org> 2020 Aman Karmani
<aman@tmm1.net>
Copyright (C) 2018 Philip Langdale <philipl@overt.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (C) 2018 Misty De Meo
Copyright (C) 2018 Michael Niedermayer (michaelni@gmx.at)
Copyright (C) 2018 Marton Balint
Copyright (C) 2018 Jokyo Images
Copyright (C) 2018 James Almer <jamrial@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Huiwen Ren, <hwrenx@126.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Henrik Gramner
Copyright (C) 2017 foo86
Copyright (C) 2017 Rostislav Pehlivanov <atomnuker@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (C) 2017 Jorge Ramirez <jorge.ramirez-ortiz@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Ivan Kalvachev <ikalvachev@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Felix Matouschek
Copyright (C) 2017 Daniil Cherednik
Copyright (C) 2017 Aurelien Jacobs <aurel@gnuage.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Alexis Ballier <aballier@gentoo.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 foo86
Copyright (C) 2016 Thomas Mundt <loudmax@yahoo.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 Rostislav Pehlivanov <atomnuker@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Ronald S. Bultje <rsbultje@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (C) 2016 Open Broadcast Systems Ltd. Author 2016 Rostislav Pehlivanov
<atomnuker@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Open Broadcast Systems Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016 Muhammad Faiz <mfcc64@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Martin Storsjo
Copyright (C) 2016 James Almer
Copyright (C) 2015, Sebastian Dröge <sebastian@centricular.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Matthew Waters <matthew@centricular.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Edward Hervey Author: Edward Hervey <bilboed@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Vittorio Giovara <vittorio.giovara@gmail.com> Based on public
domain code by Fabian Giesen, Sean Barrett and Yann Collet.
Copyright (C) 2015 Vittorio Giovara <vittorio.giovara@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Tom Butterworth <bangnoise@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Timo Rothenpieler <timo@rothenpieler.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Rostislav Pehlivanov
Copyright (C) 2015 Ronald S. Bultje <rsbultje@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Ronald S. Bultje <rsbultje gmail com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Pedro Arthur <bygrandao@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Paul B Mahol
Copyright (C) 2015 Open Broadcast Systems Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (C) 2015 James Darnley
Copyright (C) 2015 James Almer
Copyright (C) 2015 Claudio Freire
Copyright (C) 2014-2016 James Almer
Copyright (C) 2014-2015, Collabora Ltd. Author: Matthieu Bouron
<matthieu.bouron@gcollabora.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Vittorio Giovara <vittorio.giovara@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Ronald S. Bultje <rsbultje@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Peter Ross
Copyright (C) 2014 Pascal Massimino (pascal.massimino@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2014 Oleksij Rempel <linux@rempel-privat.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 Martin Storsjo
Copyright (C) 2014 Luca Barbato <lu_zero@gentoo.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Loren Merritt
Copyright (C) 2014 Kieran Kunhya <kierank@obe.tv>
Copyright (C) 2014 James Almer
Copyright (C) 2014 Daniel Oberhoff
Copyright (C) 2014 Clément Bœsch <u pkh me>
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Andreas Fuchs, Wolfgang Hrauda, Acoustics Research
Institute (ARI), Vienna, Austria
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Andreas Fuchs, Wolfgang Hrauda 
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Clément Bœsch <u pkh me>
Copyright (C) 2013, OpenCV Foundation, all rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2013 Xiaolei Yu <dreifachstein@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Wei Gao <weigao@multicorewareinc.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Wassim Hamidouche
Copyright (C) 2013 Vittorio Giovara
Copyright (C) 2013 VTT
Copyright (C) 2013 Tiancheng "Timothy" Gu
Copyright (C) 2013 Seppo Tomperi
Copyright (C) 2013 Ronald S. Bultje <rsbultje gmail com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Reimar Döffinger <Reimar.Doeffinger@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Martin Storsjo
Copyright (C) 2013 Lenny Wang
Copyright (C) 2013 James Almer based on SHA-2 code by Aaron D. Gifford
Copyright (C) 2013 James Almer <jamrial@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 James Almer
Copyright (C) 2013 Clément Bœsch <u pkh me>
Copyright (C) 2013 Calvin Walton <calvin.walton@kepstin.ca>
Copyright (C) 2013 Anand Meher Kotra
Copyright (C) 2013 - 2014 Pierre-Edouard Lepere
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Christophe Gisquet <christophe.gisquet@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Michael Niedermayer (michaelni@gmx.at)
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012, Rafaël Carré <funman@videolanorg>
Copyright (C) 2012, Collabora Ltd. Author: Sebastian Dröge
<sebastian.droege@collabora.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2012 VLC authors and VideoLAN Author : Sukrit Sangwan <
sukritsangwan at gmail dot com >
Copyright (C) 2012 Ronald S. Bultje
Copyright (C) 2012 Michael Niedermayer (michaelni@gmx.at)
Copyright (C) 2012 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (C) 2012 Matthäus G. "Anteru" Chajdas (http://anteru.net)
Copyright (C) 2012 Martin Storsjo
Copyright (C) 2012 Mark Himsley
Copyright (C) 2012 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (C) 2012 James Almer
Copyright (C) 2012 Daniel Kang
Copyright (C) 2012 Clément Bœsch <u pkh me>
Copyright (C) 2012 Clément Bœsch
Copyright (C) 2012 Christophe Gisquet <christophe.gisquet@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Carl Eugen Hoyos
Copyright (C) 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation, All Rights Reserved Author
of de-interlace algorithm: Jim Easterbrook for BBC R&D Based on the process
described by Martin Weston for BBC R&D Author of FFmpeg filter: Mark Himsley for
BBC Broadcast Systems Development
Copyright (C) 2012 British Broadcasting Corporation, All Rights Reserved Author
of de-interlace algorithm: Jim Easterbrook for BBC R&D Based on the process
described by Martin Weston for BBC R&D
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2013 Wassim Hamidouche
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2013 Mickael Raulet
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2013 Guillaume Martres
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2013 Gildas Cocherel
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Michael Niedermayer (michaelni@gmx.at)
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Michael Niedermayer (michaelni@gmx.at)
Copyright (C) 2011 x264 project
Copyright (C) 2011 Stefano Sabatini
Copyright (C) 2011 Peter Ross <pross@xvid.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 Martin Storsjo
Copyright (C) 2011 Konstantin Shishkov based on work by Mike Melanson
Copyright (C) 2011 Jordi Ortiz
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 x264 project
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Kevin Stone
Copyright (C) 2010, Chris Moeller, All rights reserved. Optimizations by Gumboot
Additional work by Burt P.
Copyright (C) 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 Rémi Denis-Courmont
Copyright (C) 2010 Ronald S. Bultje
Copyright (C) 2010 Mohamed Naufal Basheer <naufal11@gmail.com> 
Copyright (C) 2010 Mans Rullgard <mans@mansr.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Mans Rullgard
Copyright (C) 2010 Georg Martius <georg.martius@web.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 Fiona Glaser
Copyright (C) 2010 Eli Friedman <eli.friedman@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Eli Friedman
Copyright (C) 2010 David Conrad
Copyright (C) 2010 Daniel G. Taylor <dan@programmer-art.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 Amanda, Y.N. Wu <amanda11192003@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009, Willow Garage Inc., all rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009 Zuxy Meng <zuxy.meng@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Thomas P. Higdon <thomas.p.higdon@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Sebastien Lucas <sebastien.lucas@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (C) 2009 Loren Merritt <lorenm@u.washington.edu>
Copyright (C) 2009 Konstantin Shishkov based on SHA-1 code by Steve Reid
<steve@edmweb.com> and on SHA-2 code by Aaron D. Gifford
Copyright (C) 2009 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (C) 2009 Justin Ruggles
Copyright (C) 2009 Joshua Warner
Copyright (C) 2009 Dylan Yudaken
Copyright (C) 2009 David Conrad
Copyright (C) 2009 Benjamin Dobell, Glass Echidna
Copyright (C) 2008-2012 Alexander E. Patrakov 2010 Benjamin Larsson 2011 Xiang
Wang
Copyright (C) 2008-2012 Alexander E. Patrakov
Copyright (C) 2008-2010 x264 project
Copyright (C) 2008-2010 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Splitted-Desktop Systems
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (C) 2008 Sascha Sommer (saschasommer@freenet.de)
Copyright (C) 2008 Reimar Döffinger
Copyright (C) 2008 Ramiro Polla
Copyright (C) 2008 NVIDIA
Copyright (C) 2008 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (C) 2008 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (C) 2008 Jaikrishnan Menon
Copyright (C) 2008 Eli Friedman (eli.friedman@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2008 Eli Friedman (eli.friedman <at> gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2008 David Conrad
Copyright (C) 2007-2010 Christophe Gisquet <word1.word2@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 by Andrew Zabolotny (author of lensfun, from which this
filter derives from)
Copyright (C) 2007 Vitor Sessak <vitor1001@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 The FFmpeg Project
Copyright (C) 2007 Richard Spindler (author of frei0r plugin from which this was
derived)
Copyright (C) 2007 Nicholas Tung
Copyright (C) 2007 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (C) 2007 Marco Gerards <marco@gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Marc Hoffman
Copyright (C) 2007 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/>
Copyright (C) 2007 Clemens Fruhwirth
Copyright (C) 2007 Aurelien Jacobs <aurel@gnuage.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Alexis Ballier
Copyright (C) 2006-2011 Xvid Solutions GmbH
Copyright (C) 2006-2011 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at> 2010 James
Darnley <james.darnley@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Kevin Stone
Copyright (C) 2006 Robert Edele <yartrebo@earthlink.net>
Copyright (C) 2006 Michael Niedermayer (michaelni@gmx.at)
Copyright (C) 2006 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at> 2013 Daniel Kang
<daniel.d.kang@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (C) 2006 Loren Merritt <lorenm@u.washington.edu>
Copyright (C) 2006 Benjamin Larssonb
Copyright (C) 2006 Benjamin Larsson
Copyright (C) 2006 Aurelien Jacobs <aurel@gnuage.org>
Copyright (C) 2005-2018 x264 project
Copyright (C) 2005-2011 x264 project
Copyright (C) 2005-2010 x264 project
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 Brad Midgley <bmidgley@xmission.com>
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Brad Midgley <bmidgley@xmission.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 The FFmpeg project
Copyright (C) 2005 Ole André Vadla Ravnås <oleavr@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Nikolaj Poroshin <porosh3@psu.ru>
Copyright (C) 2005 Michael Ahlberg, Måns Rullgård
Copyright (C) 2005 Matthieu CASTET, Alex Beregszaszi
Copyright (C) 2005 Matthieu CASTET
Copyright (C) 2005 Mans Rullgard <mans@mansr.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2010 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (C) 2004-2010 Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Eric Lasota
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Michael Niedermayer, Loren Merritt
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Henryk Ploetz <henryk@ploetzli.ch>
Copyright (C) 2004 The FFmpeg project
Copyright (C) 2004 Romain Dolbeau <romain@dolbeau.org>
Copyright (C) 2004 Mike Melanson <melanson@pcisys.net>
Copyright (C) 2004 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (C) 2004 Konstantin Shishkov
Copyright (C) 2004 Gildas Bazin
Copyright (C) 2004 Benjamin Zores
Copyright (C) 2004 Alex Beregszaszi
Copyright (C) 2003-2011 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (C) 2003-2008 x264 project
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 by Christopher R. Hertel (crh@ubiqx.mn.org)
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 The FFmpeg project
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 The FFmpeg project
Copyright (C) 2003 The FFmpeg project
Copyright (C) 2003 Roberto Togni
Copyright (C) 2003 Mike Melanson
Copyright (C) 2003 James Klicman <james@klicman.org>
Copyright (C) 2003 Ivan Kalvachev
Copyright (C) 2003 Dr. Tim Ferguson
Copyright (C) 2003 Alex Beregszaszi & Mike Melanson
Copyright (C) 2002-2012 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (C) 2002-2004 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (C) 2002 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (C) 2002 Gunnar Monell <gmo@linux.nu>
Copyright (C) 2002 Frederic 'dilb' Boulay
Copyright (C) 2001-2012 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (C) 2001-2011 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (C) 2001-2010 Krzysztof Foltman, Markus Schmidt, Thor Harald Johansen,
Damien Zammit
Copyright (C) 2001-2010 Krzysztof Foltman, Markus Schmidt, Thor Harald Johansen
and others
Copyright (C) 2001-2010 Krzysztof Foltman, Markus Schmidt, Thor Harald Johansen
Copyright (C) 2001-2007 Michael Niedermayer
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 Michael Niedermayer (michaelni@gmx.at)
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 Michael Niedermayer <michaelni@gmx.at>
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Michael Niedermayer (michaelni@gmx.at)
Copyright (C) 2000-2008, Intel Corporation, all rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2000, Intel Corporation, all rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997 Theodore Ts'o.
Copyright (C) 1995 The Bitmap Brothers Ltd.
Copyright (C) 1995 Mark Adler
Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc..
Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
COpyright (c) 2002 Daniel Pouzzner
(c) 2020 Nelson Gomez <nelson.gomez@microsoft.com>
(c) 2013, 2014 Rl, Aetey Global Technologies AB
(c) 2013 Rl, Aetey Global Technologies AB author Cinepak colorspace, Rl, Aetey
Global Technologies AB
(c) 2011 Tomas Härdin 
(c) 2010 Konstantin Shishkov
(c) 2005 anonymous, Alex Beregszaszi, Michael Niedermayer
(c) 2005 Anonymous, Alex Beregszaszi, Michael Niedermayer
(c) 2004 Mike Melanson <melanson@pcisys.net>
(c) 2002 Fabrice Bellard
(c) 2001 Fabrice Bellard Started from sample code by Juan J. Sierralta P.
(c) 2001 Fabrice Bellard 2007 Marc Hoffman <marc.hoffman@analog.com>
(c) 2001 Fabrice Bellard
(c) 2000 Chris Bagwell <cbagwell@sprynet.com> 
(c) 1992-96 Amazing Studio
(C) 2016 Rostislav Pehlivanov <atomnuker@gmail.com>
(C) 2015 Rostislav Pehlivanov <atomnuker@gmail.com>
(C) 2004 Romain Dolbeau <romain@dolbeau.org>
(C) 2001 Tim Ferguson

