================================================================================

seL4-12.1.0

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

LICENSES 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

License-of-GNU-Licenses
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

License-of-GNU-Licenses

Everyone is allowed to distribute verbatim copies of this license document,
but modification of it is not allowed.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SHL-0.51

SOLDERPAD HARDWARE LICENSE version 0.51

This license is based closely on the Apache License Version 2.0, but is not
approved or endorsed by the Apache Foundation. A copy of the non-modified Apache
License 2.0 can be found at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.

As this license is not currently OSI or FSF approved, the Licensor permits any
Work licensed under this License, at the option of the Licensee, to be treated
as licensed under the Apache License Version 2.0 (which is so approved).

This License is licensed under the terms of this License and in particular
clause 7 below (Disclaimer of Warranties) applies in relation to its use.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

1. Definitions.

"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and
distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

"Licensor" shall mean the Rights owner or entity authorized by the Rights owner
that is granting the License.

"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other entities
that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity.
For the purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the power, direct or
indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by
contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising
permissions granted by this License.

"Rights" means copyright and any similar right including design right (whether
registered or unregistered), semiconductor topography (mask) rights and database
rights (but excluding Patents and Trademarks).

"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, including
but not limited to source code, net lists, board layouts, CAD files,
documentation source, and configuration files.

"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or
translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled object code,
generated documentation, the instantiation of a hardware design and conversions
to other media types, including intermediate forms such as bytecodes, FPGA
bitstreams, artwork and semiconductor topographies (mask works).

"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source form or other Object
form, made available under the License, as indicated by a Rights notice that is
included in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix
below).

"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that
is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions,
annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a whole, an
original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, Derivative Works
shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by
name) or physically connect to or interoperate with the interfaces of, the Work
and Derivative Works thereof.

"Contribution" shall mean any design or work of authorship, including the
original version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or
Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for
inclusion in the Work by the Rights owner or by an individual or Legal Entity
authorized to submit on behalf of the Rights owner. For the purposes of this
definition, "submitted" means any form of electronic, verbal, or written
communication sent to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not
limited to communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control
systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding
communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by
the Rights owner as "Not a Contribution."

"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf
of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently
incorporated within the Work.

2. Grant of License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each
Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-
charge, royalty-free, irrevocable license under the Rights to reproduce, prepare
Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and
distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form and do
anything in relation to the Work as if the Rights did not exist.

3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License,
each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-
charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent
license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise
transfer the Work, where such license applies only to those patent claims
licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work
to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation
against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit)
alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work
constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date
such litigation is filed.

4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or
Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in
Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:

   1. You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy
of this License; and

   2. You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that
You changed the files; and

   3. You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You
distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the
Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part
of the Derivative Works; and

   4. If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution,
then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of
the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those
notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the
Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided along
with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative
Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of
the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the
License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that
You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work,
provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as
modifying the License. You may add Your own copyright statement to Your
modifications and may provide additional or different license terms and
conditions for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for
any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and
distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in this
License.

5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any
Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the
Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without any
additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall
supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement you may have
executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade names,
trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required
for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and
reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in
writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its
Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any warranties
or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks
associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether in
tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by
applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in
writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including any
direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character
arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage,
computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or
losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of such
damages.

9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work or
Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for,
acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations
and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such
obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole
responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to
indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability incurred
by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any
such warranty or additional liability.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

APPENDIX: How to apply this license to your work

To apply this license to your work, attach the following boilerplate notice,
with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
information. (Don't include the brackets!) The text should be enclosed in the
appropriate comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a file or
class name and description of purpose be included on the same "printed page" as
the copyright notice for easier identification within third-party archives.

Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner] Copyright and related rights are
licensed under the Solderpad Hardware License, Version 0.51 (the "License"); you
may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a
copy of the License at http://solderpad.org/licenses/SHL-0.51. Unless required
by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software, hardware and materials
distributed under this License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License
for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the
License.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CC-BY-SA-4.0

Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International

 Creative Commons Corporation ("Creative Commons") is not a law firm and does
not provide legal services or legal advice. Distribution of Creative Commons
public licenses does not create a lawyer-client or other relationship. Creative
Commons makes its licenses and related information available on an "as-is"
basis. Creative Commons gives no warranties regarding its licenses, any material
licensed under their terms and conditions, or any related information. Creative
Commons disclaims all liability for damages resulting from their use to the
fullest extent possible.

Using Creative Commons Public Licenses

Creative Commons public licenses provide a standard set of terms and conditions
that creators and other rights holders may use to share original works of
authorship and other material subject to copyright and certain other rights
specified in the public license below. The following considerations are for
informational purposes only, are not exhaustive, and do not form part of our
licenses.

Considerations for licensors: Our public licenses are intended for use by those
authorized to give the public permission to use material in ways otherwise
restricted by copyright and certain other rights. Our licenses are irrevocable.
Licensors should read and understand the terms and conditions of the license
they choose before applying it. Licensors should also secure all rights
necessary before applying our licenses so that the public can reuse the material
as expected. Licensors should clearly mark any material not subject to the
license. This includes other CC-licensed material, or material used under an
exception or limitation to copyright. More considerations for licensors.

Considerations for the public: By using one of our public licenses, a licensor
grants the public permission to use the licensed material under specified terms
and conditions. If the licensor's permission is not necessary for any reason-for
example, because of any applicable exception or limitation to copyright-then
that use is not regulated by the license. Our licenses grant only permissions
under copyright and certain other rights that a licensor has authority to grant.
Use of the licensed material may still be restricted for other reasons,
including because others have copyright or other rights in the material. A
licensor may make special requests, such as asking that all changes be marked or
described.

Although not required by our licenses, you are encouraged to respect those
requests where reasonable. More considerations for the public.

Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License

By exercising the Licensed Rights (defined below), You accept and agree to be
bound by the terms and conditions of this Creative Commons Attribution-
ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License ("Public License"). To the extent
this Public License may be interpreted as a contract, You are granted the
Licensed Rights in consideration of Your acceptance of these terms and
conditions, and the Licensor grants You such rights in consideration of benefits
the Licensor receives from making the Licensed Material available under these
terms and conditions.

Section 1 - Definitions.

     a. Adapted Material means material subject to Copyright and Similar Rights
that is derived from or based upon the Licensed Material and in which the
Licensed Material is translated, altered, arranged, transformed, or otherwise
modified in a manner requiring permission under the Copyright and Similar Rights
held by the Licensor. For purposes of this Public License, where the Licensed
Material is a musical work, performance, or sound recording, Adapted Material is
always produced where the Licensed Material is synched in timed relation with a
moving image.

     b. Adapter's License means the license You apply to Your Copyright and
Similar Rights in Your contributions to Adapted Material in accordance with the
terms and conditions of this Public License.

     c. BY-SA Compatible License means a license listed at
creativecommons.org/compatiblelicenses, approved by Creative Commons as
essentially the equivalent of this Public License.

     d. Copyright and Similar Rights means copyright and/or similar rights
closely related to copyright including, without limitation, performance,
broadcast, sound recording, and Sui Generis Database Rights, without regard to
how the rights are labeled or categorized. For purposes of this Public License,
the rights specified in Section 2(b)(1)-(2) are not Copyright and Similar
Rights.

     e. Effective Technological Measures means those measures that, in the
absence of proper authority, may not be circumvented under laws fulfilling
obligations under Article 11 of the WIPO Copyright Treaty adopted on December
20, 1996, and/or similar international agreements.

     f. Exceptions and Limitations means fair use, fair dealing, and/or any
other exception or limitation to Copyright and Similar Rights that applies to
Your use of the Licensed Material.

     g. License Elements means the license attributes listed in the name of a
Creative Commons Public License. The License Elements of this Public License are
Attribution and ShareAlike.

     h. Licensed Material means the artistic or literary work, database, or
other material to which the Licensor applied this Public License.

     i. Licensed Rights means the rights granted to You subject to the terms and
conditions of this Public License, which are limited to all Copyright and
Similar Rights that apply to Your use of the Licensed Material and that the
Licensor has authority to license.

     j. Licensor means the individual(s) or entity(ies) granting rights under
this Public License.

     k. Share means to provide material to the public by any means or process
that requires permission under the Licensed Rights, such as reproduction, public
display, public performance, distribution, dissemination, communication, or
importation, and to make material available to the public including in ways that
members of the public may access the material from a place and at a time
individually chosen by them.

     l. Sui Generis Database Rights means rights other than copyright resulting
from Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March
1996 on the legal protection of databases, as amended and/or succeeded, as well
as other essentially equivalent rights anywhere in the world.

     m. You means the individual or entity exercising the Licensed Rights under
this Public License. Your has a corresponding meaning.

Section 2 - Scope.

     a.	License grant.

          1. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, the
Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-sublicensable, non-
exclusive, irrevocable license to exercise the Licensed Rights in the Licensed
Material to:

               A. reproduce and Share the Licensed Material, in whole or in
part; and

               B. produce, reproduce, and Share Adapted Material.

          2. Exceptions and Limitations. For the avoidance of doubt, where
Exceptions and Limitations apply to Your use, this Public License does not
apply, and You do not need to comply with its terms and conditions.

          3. Term. The term of this Public License is specified in Section 6(a).

          4. Media and formats; technical modifications allowed. The Licensor
authorizes You to exercise the Licensed Rights in all media and formats whether
now known or hereafter created, and to make technical modifications necessary to
do so. The Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any right or authority to
forbid You from making technical modifications necessary to exercise the
Licensed Rights, including technical modifications necessary to circumvent
Effective Technological Measures. For purposes of this Public License, simply
making modifications authorized by this Section 2(a)(4) never produces Adapted
Material.

          5. Downstream recipients.

               A. Offer from the Licensor - Licensed Material. Every recipient
of the Licensed Material automatically receives an offer from the Licensor to
exercise the Licensed Rights under the terms and conditions of this Public
License.

               B. Additional offer from the Licensor - Adapted Material. Every
recipient of Adapted Material from You automatically receives an offer from the
Licensor to exercise the Licensed Rights in the Adapted Material under the
conditions of the Adapter's License You apply.

               C. No downstream restrictions. You may not offer or impose any
additional or different terms or conditions on, or apply any Effective
Technological Measures to, the Licensed Material if doing so restricts exercise
of the Licensed Rights by any recipient of the Licensed Material.

          6. No endorsement. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may
be construed as permission to assert or imply that You are, or that Your use of
the Licensed Material is, connected with, or sponsored, endorsed, or granted
official status by, the Licensor or others designated to receive attribution as
provided in Section 3(a)(1)(A)(i).

     b.	Other rights.

          1. Moral rights, such as the right of integrity, are not licensed
under this Public License, nor are publicity, privacy, and/or other similar
personality rights; however, to the extent possible, the Licensor waives and/or
agrees not to assert any such rights held by the Licensor to the limited extent
necessary to allow You to exercise the Licensed Rights, but not otherwise.

          2. Patent and trademark rights are not licensed under this Public
License.

          3. To the extent possible, the Licensor waives any right to collect
royalties from You for the exercise of the Licensed Rights, whether directly or
through a collecting society under any voluntary or waivable statutory or
compulsory licensing scheme. In all other cases the Licensor expressly reserves
any right to collect such royalties.

Section 3 - License Conditions.

Your exercise of the Licensed Rights is expressly made subject to the following
conditions.

     a.	Attribution.

          1. If You Share the Licensed Material (including in modified form),
You must:

               A. retain the following if it is supplied by the Licensor with
the Licensed Material:

                    i.  identification of the creator(s) of the Licensed
Material and any others designated to receive attribution, in any reasonable
manner requested by the Licensor (including by pseudonym if designated);

                    ii.	a copyright notice;

                    iii. a notice that refers to this Public License;

                    iv.	a notice that refers to the disclaimer of warranties;

                    v.  a URI or hyperlink to the Licensed Material to the
extent reasonably practicable;

               B. indicate if You modified the Licensed Material and retain an
indication of any previous modifications; and

               C. indicate the Licensed Material is licensed under this Public
License, and include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, this Public
License.

          2. You may satisfy the conditions in Section 3(a)(1) in any reasonable
manner based on the medium, means, and context in which You Share the Licensed
Material. For example, it may be reasonable to satisfy the conditions by
providing a URI or hyperlink to a resource that includes the required
information.

          3. If requested by the Licensor, You must remove any of the
information required by Section 3(a)(1)(A) to the extent reasonably practicable.

     b. ShareAlike.In addition to the conditions in Section 3(a), if You Share
Adapted Material You produce, the following conditions also apply.

          1. The Adapter's License You apply must be a Creative Commons license
with the same License Elements, this version or later, or a BY-SA Compatible
License.

          2. You must include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, the
Adapter's License You apply. You may satisfy this condition in any reasonable
manner based on the medium, means, and context in which You Share Adapted
Material.

          3. You may not offer or impose any additional or different terms or
conditions on, or apply any Effective Technological Measures to, Adapted
Material that restrict exercise of the rights granted under the Adapter's
License You apply.

Section 4 - Sui Generis Database Rights.

Where the Licensed Rights include Sui Generis Database Rights that apply to Your
use of the Licensed Material:

     a. for the avoidance of doubt, Section 2(a)(1) grants You the right to
extract, reuse, reproduce, and Share all or a substantial portion of the
contents of the database;

     b. if You include all or a substantial portion of the database contents in
a database in which You have Sui Generis Database Rights, then the database in
which You have Sui Generis Database Rights (but not its individual contents) is
Adapted Material, including for purposes of Section 3(b); and

     c. You must comply with the conditions in Section 3(a) if You Share all or
a substantial portion of the contents of the database.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 4 supplements and does not replace Your
obligations under this Public License where the Licensed Rights include other
Copyright and Similar Rights.

Section 5 - Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.

     a. Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent
possible, the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and
makes no representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed
Material, whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes, without
limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the
presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where
disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this disclaimer
may not apply to You.

     b. To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You
on any legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for
any direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary,
or other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License
or use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the
possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of
liability is not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to
You.

     c. The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided above
shall be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent possible, most closely
approximates an absolute disclaimer and waiver of all liability.

Section 6 - Term and Termination.

     a. This Public License applies for the term of the Copyright and Similar
Rights licensed here. However, if You fail to comply with this Public License,
then Your rights under this Public License terminate automatically.

     b. Where Your right to use the Licensed Material has terminated under
Section 6(a), it reinstates:

          1. automatically as of the date the violation is cured, provided it is
cured within 30 days of Your discovery of the violation; or

          2. upon express reinstatement by the Licensor.

     c. For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 6(b) does not affect any right
the Licensor may have to seek remedies for Your violations of this Public
License.

     d. For the avoidance of doubt, the Licensor may also offer the Licensed
Material under separate terms or conditions or stop distributing the Licensed
Material at any time; however, doing so will not terminate this Public License.

     e.	Sections 1, 5, 6, 7, and 8 survive termination of this Public License.

Section 7 - Other Terms and Conditions.

     a. The Licensor shall not be bound by any additional or different terms or
conditions communicated by You unless expressly agreed.

     b. Any arrangements, understandings, or agreements regarding the Licensed
Material not stated herein are separate from and independent of the terms and
conditions of this Public License.

Section 8 - Interpretation.

     a. For the avoidance of doubt, this Public License does not, and shall not
be interpreted to, reduce, limit, restrict, or impose conditions on any use of
the Licensed Material that could lawfully be made without permission under this
Public License.

     b. To the extent possible, if any provision of this Public License is
deemed unenforceable, it shall be automatically reformed to the minimum extent
necessary to make it enforceable. If the provision cannot be reformed, it shall
be severed from this Public License without affecting the enforceability of the
remaining terms and conditions.

     c. No term or condition of this Public License will be waived and no
failure to comply consented to unless expressly agreed to by the Licensor.

     d. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be interpreted as a
limitation upon, or waiver of, any privileges and immunities that apply to the
Licensor or You, including from the legal processes of any jurisdiction or
authority.

Creative Commons is not a party to its public licenses. Notwithstanding,
Creative Commons may elect to apply one of its public licenses to material it
publishes and in those instances will be considered the "Licensor." Except for
the limited purpose of indicating that material is shared under a Creative
Commons public license or as otherwise permitted by the Creative Commons
policies published at creativecommons.org/policies, Creative Commons does not
authorize the use of the trademark "Creative Commons" or any other trademark or
logo of Creative Commons without its prior written consent including, without
limitation, in connection with any unauthorized modifications to any of its
public licenses or any other arrangements, understandings, or agreements
concerning use of licensed material. For the avoidance of doubt, this paragraph
does not form part of the public licenses.

Creative Commons may be contacted at creativecommons.org.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only or MIT

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: BSD-2-Clause or GPL-2.0-only

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. This General Public License applies to most
of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose
authors commit to using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is
covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must show them
these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program will individually
obtain patent licenses, in effect making the program proprietary. To prevent
this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's free
use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice
placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such program or
work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or any
derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
translated into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without
limitation in the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by
this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running the Program is not
restricted, and the output from the Program is covered only if its contents
constitute a work based on the Program (independent of having been made by
running the Program). Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code as
you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately
publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty;
keep intact all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at
your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it, thus
forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such modifications
or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of
these conditions:

     a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

     b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole or
in part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be
licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this
License.

     c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the most
ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License. (Exception:
if the Program itself is interactive but does not normally print such an
announcement, your work based on the Program is not required to print an
announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with the
Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under Section
2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above
provided that you also do one of the following:

     a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

     b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of physically
performing source distribution, a complete machine-readable copy of the
corresponding source code, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

     c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to
distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form with such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation
of the executable. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed
need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or
binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself
accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code
from the same place counts as distribution of the source code, even though third
parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Program
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or any
work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Program or works based on it.

6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third
parties to this License.

7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent infringement
or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions are imposed
on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that contradict the
conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this
License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your
obligations under this License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a
consequence you may not distribute the Program at all. For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by all those
who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only way you
could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain entirely from
distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and the
section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system, which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in
spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems
or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program specifies
a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version",
you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version
or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the
Program does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any
version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

NO WARRANTY

11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE
PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

     one line to give the program's name and an idea of what it does. Copyright
(C) yyyy name of author

     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA. Also add information
on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

     Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author Gnomovision comes
with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software,
and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c'
for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

     Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished
to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS
OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT
MIT License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of
the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LPPL-1.3c

The LaTeX Project Public License
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

LPPL Version 1.3c 2008-05-04

Copyright 1999 2002-2008 LaTeX3 Project

Everyone is allowed to distribute verbatim copies of this license document, but
modification of it is not allowed.

PREAMBLE
========


The LaTeX Project Public License (LPPL) is the primary license under which the
LaTeX kernel and the base LaTeX packages are distributed.

You may use this license for any work of which you hold the copyright and which
you wish to distribute. This license may be particularly suitable if your work
is TeX-related (such as a LaTeX package), but it is written in such a way that
you can use it even if your work is unrelated to TeX.

The section `WHETHER AND HOW TO DISTRIBUTE WORKS UNDER THIS LICENSE', below,
gives instructions, examples, and recommendations for authors who are
considering distributing their works under this license.

This license gives conditions under which a work may be distributed and
modified, as well as conditions under which modified versions of that work may
be distributed.

We, the LaTeX3 Project, believe that the conditions below give you the freedom
to make and distribute modified versions of your work that conform with whatever
technical specifications you wish while maintaining the availability, integrity,
and reliability of that work. If you do not see how to achieve your goal while
meeting these conditions, then read the document `cfgguide.tex' and
`modguide.tex' in the base LaTeX distribution for suggestions.

DEFINITIONS
===========


In this license document the following terms are used:

`Work' Any work being distributed under this License. `Derived Work' Any work
that under any applicable law is derived from the Work.

`Modification' Any procedure that produces a Derived Work under any applicable
law -- for example, the production of a file containing an original file
associated with the Work or a significant portion of such a file, either
verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another language.

`Modify' To apply any procedure that produces a Derived Work under any
applicable law. `Distribution' Making copies of the Work available from one
person to another, in whole or in part. Distribution includes (but is not
limited to) making any electronic components of the Work accessible by file
transfer protocols such as FTP or HTTP or by shared file systems such as Sun's
Network File System (NFS).

`Compiled Work' A version of the Work that has been processed into a form where
it is directly usable on a computer system. This processing may include using
installation facilities provided by the Work, transformations of the Work,
copying of components of the Work, or other activities. Note that modification
of any installation facilities provided by the Work constitutes modification of
the Work.

`Current Maintainer' A person or persons nominated as such within the Work. If
there is no such explicit nomination then it is the `Copyright Holder' under any
applicable law.

`Base Interpreter' A program or process that is normally needed for running or
interpreting a part or the whole of the Work.

A Base Interpreter may depend on external components but these are not
considered part of the Base Interpreter provided that each external component
clearly identifies itself whenever it is used interactively. Unless explicitly
specified when applying the license to the Work, the only applicable Base
Interpreter is a `LaTeX-Format' or in the case of files belonging to the `LaTeX-
format' a program implementing the `TeX language'.

CONDITIONS ON DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION
===========================================


1. Activities other than distribution and/or modification of the Work are not
covered by this license; they are outside its scope. In particular, the act of
running the Work is not restricted and no requirements are made concerning any
offers of support for the Work.

2. You may distribute a complete, unmodified copy of the Work as you received
it. Distribution of only part of the Work is considered modification of the
Work, and no right to distribute such a Derived Work may be assumed under the
terms of this clause.

3. You may distribute a Compiled Work that has been generated from a complete,
unmodified copy of the Work as distributed under Clause 2 above, as long as that
Compiled Work is distributed in such a way that the recipients may install the
Compiled Work on their system exactly as it would have been installed if they
generated a Compiled Work directly from the Work.

4. If you are the Current Maintainer of the Work, you may, without restriction,
modify the Work, thus creating a Derived Work. You may also distribute the
Derived Work without restriction, including Compiled Works generated from the
Derived Work. Derived Works distributed in this manner by the Current Maintainer
are considered to be updated versions of the Work.

5. If you are not the Current Maintainer of the Work, you may modify your copy
of the Work, thus creating a Derived Work based on the Work, and compile this
Derived Work, thus creating a Compiled Work based on the Derived Work.

6. If you are not the Current Maintainer of the Work, you may distribute a
Derived Work provided the following conditions are met for every component of
the Work unless that component clearly states in the copyright notice that it is
exempt from that condition. Only the Current Maintainer is allowed to add such
statements of exemption to a component of the Work.

     a. If a component of this Derived Work can be a direct replacement for a
component of the Work when that component is used with the Base Interpreter,
then, wherever this component of the Work identifies itself to the user when
used interactively with that Base Interpreter, the replacement component of this
Derived Work clearly and unambiguously identifies itself as a modified version
of this component to the user when used interactively with that Base
Interpreter.

     b. Every component of the Derived Work contains prominent notices detailing
the nature of the changes to that component, or a prominent reference to another
file that is distributed as part of the Derived Work and that contains a
complete and accurate log of the changes.

     c. No information in the Derived Work implies that any persons, including
(but not limited to) the authors of the original version of the Work, provide
any support, including (but not limited to) the reporting and handling of
errors, to recipients of the Derived Work unless those persons have stated
explicitly that they do provide such support for the Derived Work.

     d. You distribute at least one of the following with the Derived Work:

          1. A complete, unmodified copy of the Work; if your distribution of a
modified component is made by offering access to copy the modified component
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the Work from
the same or some similar place meets this condition, even though third parties
are not compelled to copy the Work along with the modified component;

          2. Information that is sufficient to obtain a complete, unmodified
copy of the Work.

7. If you are not the Current Maintainer of the Work, you may distribute a
Compiled Work generated from a Derived Work, as long as the Derived Work is
distributed to all recipients of the Compiled Work, and as long as the
conditions of Clause 6, above, are met with regard to the Derived Work.

8. The conditions above are not intended to prohibit, and hence do not apply to,
the modification, by any method, of any component so that it becomes identical
to an updated version of that component of the Work as it is distributed by the
Current Maintainer under Clause 4, above.

9. Distribution of the Work or any Derived Work in an alternative format, where
the Work or that Derived Work (in whole or in part) is then produced by applying
some process to that format, does not relax or nullify any sections of this
license as they pertain to the results of applying that process.

10.
     a. A Derived Work may be distributed under a different license provided
that license itself honors the conditions listed in Clause 6 above, in regard to
the Work, though it does not have to honor the rest of the conditions in this
license.

     b. If a Derived Work is distributed under a different license, that Derived
Work must provide sufficient documentation as part of itself to allow each
recipient of that Derived Work to honor the restrictions in Clause 6 above,
concerning changes from the Work.

11. This license places no restrictions on works that are unrelated to the Work,
nor does this license place any restrictions on aggregating such works with the
Work by any means.

12. Nothing in this license is intended to, or may be used to, prevent complete
compliance by all parties with all applicable laws.

NO WARRANTY
===========


There is no warranty for the Work. Except when otherwise stated in writing, the
Copyright Holder provides the Work `as is', without warranty of any kind, either
expressed or implied, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of
merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. The entire risk as to the
quality and performance of the Work is with you. Should the Work prove
defective, you assume the cost of all necessary servicing, repair, or
correction.

In no event unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing will The
Copyright Holder, or any author named in the components of the Work, or any
other party who may distribute and/or modify the Work as permitted above, be
liable to you for damages, including any general, special, incidental or
consequential damages arising out of any use of the Work or out of inability to
use the Work (including, but not limited to, loss of data, data being rendered
inaccurate, or losses sustained by anyone as a result of any failure of the Work
to operate with any other programs), even if the Copyright Holder or said author
or said other party has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

MAINTENANCE OF THE WORK
=======================


The Work has the status `author-maintained' if the Copyright Holder explicitly
and prominently states near the primary copyright notice in the Work that the
Work can only be maintained by the Copyright Holder or simply that it is
`author-maintained'.

The Work has the status `maintained' if there is a Current Maintainer who has
indicated in the Work that they are willing to receive error reports for the
Work (for example, by supplying a valid e-mail address). It is not required for
the Current Maintainer to acknowledge or act upon these error reports.

The Work changes from status `maintained' to `unmaintained' if there is no
Current Maintainer, or the person stated to be Current Maintainer of the work
cannot be reached through the indicated means of communication for a period of
six months, and there are no other significant signs of active maintenance.

You can become the Current Maintainer of the Work by agreement with any existing
Current Maintainer to take over this role.

If the Work is unmaintained, you can become the Current Maintainer of the Work
through the following steps:

1. Make a reasonable attempt to trace the Current Maintainer (and the Copyright
Holder, if the two differ) through the means of an Internet or similar search.

2. If this search is successful, then enquire whether the Work is still
maintained.

     a. If it is being maintained, then ask the Current Maintainer to update
their communication data within one month.

     b. If the search is unsuccessful or no action to resume active maintenance
is taken by the Current Maintainer, then announce within the pertinent community
your intention to take over maintenance. (If the Work is a LaTeX work, this
could be done, for example, by posting to comp.text.tex.)

3a. If the Current Maintainer is reachable and agrees to pass maintenance of the
Work to you, then this takes effect immediately upon announcement.

b. If the Current Maintainer is not reachable and the Copyright Holder agrees
that maintenance of the Work be passed to you, then this takes effect
immediately upon announcement.

4. If you make an `intention announcement' as described in 2b. above and after
three months your intention is challenged neither by the Current Maintainer nor
by the Copyright Holder nor by other people, then you may arrange for the Work
to be changed so as to name you as the (new) Current Maintainer.

5. If the previously unreachable Current Maintainer becomes reachable once more
within three months of a change completed under the terms of 3b) or 4), then
that Current Maintainer must become or remain the Current Maintainer upon
request provided they then update their communication data within one month.

A change in the Current Maintainer does not, of itself, alter the fact that the
Work is distributed under the LPPL license.

If you become the Current Maintainer of the Work, you should immediately
provide, within the Work, a prominent and unambiguous statement of your status
as Current Maintainer. You should also announce your new status to the same
pertinent community as in 2b) above.

WHETHER AND HOW TO DISTRIBUTE WORKS UNDER THIS LICENSE
======================================================


This section contains important instructions, examples, and recommendations for
authors who are considering distributing their works under this license. These
authors are addressed as `you' in this section.

Choosing This License or Another License
----------------------------------------


If for any part of your work you want or need to use *distribution* conditions
that differ significantly from those in this license, then do not refer to this
license anywhere in your work but, instead, distribute your work under a
different license. You may use the text of this license as a model for your own
license, but your license should not refer to the LPPL or otherwise give the
impression that your work is distributed under the LPPL.

The document `modguide.tex' in the base LaTeX distribution explains the
motivation behind the conditions of this license. It explains, for example, why
distributing LaTeX under the GNU General Public License (GPL) was considered
inappropriate. Even if your work is unrelated to LaTeX, the discussion in
`modguide.tex' may still be relevant, and authors intending to distribute their
works under any license are encouraged to read it.

A Recommendation on Modification Without Distribution
-----------------------------------------------------


It is wise never to modify a component of the Work, even for your own personal
use, without also meeting the above conditions for distributing the modified
component. While you might intend that such modifications will never be
distributed, often this will happen by accident -- you may forget that you have
modified that component; or it may not occur to you when allowing others to
access the modified version that you are thus distributing it and violating the
conditions of this license in ways that could have legal implications and,
worse, cause problems for the community. It is therefore usually in your best
interest to keep your copy of the Work identical with the public one. Many works
provide ways to control the behavior of that work without altering any of its
licensed components.

How to Use This License
-----------------------


To use this license, place in each of the components of your work both an
explicit copyright notice including your name and the year the work was authored
and/or last substantially modified. Include also a statement that the
distribution and/or modification of that component is constrained by the
conditions in this license.

Here is an example of such a notice and statement:

     %% pig.dtx
     %% Copyright 2005 M. Y. Name
     %
     % This work may be distributed and/or modified under the
     % conditions of the LaTeX Project Public License, either version 1.3
     % of this license or (at your option) any later version.
     % The latest version of this license is in
     % http://www.latex-project.org/lppl.txt
     % and version 1.3 or later is part of all distributions of LaTeX
     % version 2005/12/01 or later.
     %
     % This work has the LPPL maintenance status `maintained'.
     %
     % The Current Maintainer of this work is M. Y. Name.
     %
     % This work consists of the files pig.dtx and pig.ins
     % and the derived file pig.sty.

Given such a notice and statement in a file, the conditions given in this
license document would apply, with the `Work' referring to the three files
`pig.dtx', `pig.ins', and `pig.sty' (the last being generated from `pig.dtx'
using `pig.ins'), the `Base Interpreter' referring to any `LaTeX-Format', and
both `Copyright Holder' and `Current Maintainer' referring to the person `M. Y.
Name'.

If you do not want the Maintenance section of LPPL to apply to your Work, change
`maintained' above into `author-maintained'. However, we recommend that you use
`maintained', as the Maintenance section was added in order to ensure that your
Work remains useful to the community even when you can no longer maintain and
support it yourself.

Derived Works That Are Not Replacements
---------------------------------------


Several clauses of the LPPL specify means to provide reliability and stability
for the user community. They therefore concern themselves with the case that a
Derived Work is intended to be used as a (compatible or incompatible)
replacement of the original Work. If this is not the case (e.g., if a few lines
of code are reused for a completely different task), then clauses 6b and 6d
shall not apply.

Important Recommendations
-------------------------


Defining What Constitutes the Work

The LPPL requires that distributions of the Work contain all the files of the
Work. It is therefore important that you provide a way for the licensee to
determine which files constitute the Work. This could, for example, be achieved
by explicitly listing all the files of the Work near the copyright notice of
each file or by using a line such as:

     % This work consists of all files listed in manifest.txt.

in that place. In the absence of an unequivocal list it might be impossible for
the licensee to determine what is considered by you to comprise the Work and, in
such a case, the licensee would be entitled to make reasonable conjectures as to
which files comprise the Work.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Apache-2.0
Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "{}"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright {yyyy} {name of copyright owner}

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0+

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. This General Public License applies to most
of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose
authors commit to using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is
covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must show them
these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program will individually
obtain patent licenses, in effect making the program proprietary. To prevent
this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's free
use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

   0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice
placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such program or
work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or any
derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
translated into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without
limitation in the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running the Program is
not restricted, and the output from the Program is covered only if its contents
constitute a work based on the Program (independent of having been made by
running the Program). Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code
as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program
a copy of this License along with the Program.

   You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also
meet all of these conditions:

      a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

      b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole
or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be
licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this
License.

      c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the most
ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License. (Exception:
if the Program itself is interactive but does not normally print such an
announcement, your work based on the Program is not required to print an
announcement.)

   These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

   Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Program.

   In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with
the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

   3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under
Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above provided that you also do one of the following:

      a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

      b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of physically
performing source distribution, a complete machine-readable copy of the
corresponding source code, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

      c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to
distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form with such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

   The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation
of the executable. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed
need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or
binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself
accompanies the executable.

   If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to
copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source
code from the same place counts as distribution of the source code, even though
third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

   4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Program
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or any
work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Program or works based on it.

   6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third
parties to this License.

   7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Program at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Program by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Program.

   If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and the
section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

   It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents
or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system, which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

   This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

   8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

   9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar
in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new
problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Program does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose
any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM
"AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and an idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) <yyyy> <name of author>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin
Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author Gnomovision comes with
ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software, and
you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c' for
details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

< signature of Ty Coon > , 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CC-BY-SA-4.0

This software includes material (documentation) copyrighted 2020 by Data61,
CSIRO (ABN 41 687 119 230). This material is available under CC-BY-SA-4.0, which
is available in this document and online:
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/

The website of seL4 can be reached via https://sel4.systems/

Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.

UNLESS OTHERWISE SEPARATELY UNDERTAKEN BY THE LICENSOR, TO THE EXTENT POSSIBLE,
THE LICENSOR OFFERS THE LICENSED MATERIAL AS-IS AND AS-AVAILABLE, AND MAKES NO
REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND CONCERNING THE LICENSED MATERIAL,
WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY, OR OTHER. THIS INCLUDES, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, ABSENCE OF LATENT OR OTHER DEFECTS, ACCURACY, OR THE
PRESENCE OR ABSENCE OF ERRORS, WHETHER OR NOT KNOWN OR DISCOVERABLE. WHERE
DISCLAIMERS OF WARRANTIES ARE NOT ALLOWED IN FULL OR IN PART, THIS DISCLAIMER
MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

TO THE EXTENT POSSIBLE, IN NO EVENT WILL THE LICENSOR BE LIABLE TO YOU ON ANY
LEGAL THEORY (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, NEGLIGENCE) OR OTHERWISE FOR ANY
DIRECT, SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE, EXEMPLARY, OR
OTHER LOSSES, COSTS, EXPENSES, OR DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THIS PUBLIC LICENSE OR
USE OF THE LICENSED MATERIAL, EVEN IF THE LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH LOSSES, COSTS, EXPENSES, OR DAMAGES. WHERE A LIMITATION OF
LIABILITY IS NOT ALLOWED IN FULL OR IN PART, THIS LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO
YOU.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under BSD-2-Clause or GPL-2.0, in this
context BSD-2-Clause, has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either BSD-2-Clause or GPL-2.0. For convenience all
license texts are provided

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under MIT or GPL-2.0, in this context MIT
has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to choose
either MIT or GPL-2.0. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright notices

copyright General Dynamics C4 Systems
Copyright © 2005-2020 Rich Felker, et al.
Copyright Linux Kernel Team
Copyright 2021, Data61, CSIRO (ABN 41 687 119 230)
Copyright 2021, Breakaway Consulting Pty. Ltd.
Copyright 2021, Axel Heider <axelheider@gmx.de>
Copyright 2020, Hensoldt Cyber
Copyright 2020, HENSOLDT Cyber GmbH
Copyright 2020, DornerWorks
Copyright 2020, Data61, CSIRO (ABN 41 687 119 230)
Copyright 2020 Data61, CSIRO (ABN 41 687 119 230) 
Copyright 2020 Data61, CSIRO (ABN 41 687 119 230)
Copyright 2019, DornerWorks
Copyright 2019, Data61, CSIRO (ABN 41 687 119 230)
Copyright 2018 ETH Zurich and University of Bologna.
Copyright 2017, Genode Labs GmbH
Copyright 2017, General Dynamics C4 Systems
Copyright 2016, General Dynamics C4 Systems
Copyright 2015, DornerWorks, Ltd.
Copyright 2015, DornerWorks
Copyright 2015, 2016 Hesham Almatary <heshamelmatary@gmail.com>
Copyright 2014, General Dynamics C4 Systems
Copyright 2014 Data61, CSIRO
Copyright 2005 M. Y. Name
Copyright 1999 2002-2008 LaTeX3 Project
Copyright (c) 2019-2020 Microchip Technology Inc. 
Copyright (c) 2018 SiFive, Inc
Copyright (c) 2012-2014, The Regents of the University of California Regents).
All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2017, The Regents of the University of California Regents).
All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2021, Hensoldt Cyber GmbH
Copyright (C) 2001-2009, David M. Beazley (Dabeaz LLC) All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
(c) 2005/02/27 Nicolas Markey <markey at lsv dot ens-cachan dot fr> All rights
reserved.
