================================================================================

libvirt-9.5.0

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

LICENSES 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ISC-style

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE AUTHORS AND
CONTRIBUTORS ACCEPT NO RESPONSIBILITY IN ANY CONCEIVABLE MANNER.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

License-of-GNU-Licenses
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FSFAP

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is,
without warranty of any kind.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Public-domain

Public domain

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-or-later OR BSD-3-Clause

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OFL-1.1

SIL OPEN FONT LICENSE

Version 1.1 - 26 February 2007

PREAMBLE

The goals of the Open Font License (OFL) are to stimulate worldwide development
of collaborative font projects, to support the font creation efforts of academic
and linguistic communities, and to provide a free and open framework in which
fonts may be shared and improved in partnership with others.

The OFL allows the licensed fonts to be used, studied, modified and
redistributed freely as long as they are not sold by themselves. The fonts,
including any derivative works, can be bundled, embedded, redistributed and/or
sold with any software provided that any reserved names are not used by
derivative works. The fonts and derivatives, however, cannot be released under
any other type of license. The requirement for fonts to remain under this
license does not apply to any document created using the fonts or their
derivatives.

DEFINITIONS

"Font Software" refers to the set of files released by the Copyright Holder(s)
under this license and clearly marked as such. This may include source files,
build scripts and documentation.

"Reserved Font Name" refers to any names specified as such after the copyright
statement(s).

"Original Version" refers to the collection of Font Software components as
distributed by the Copyright Holder(s).

"Modified Version" refers to any derivative made by adding to, deleting, or
substituting — in part or in whole — any of the components of the Original
Version, by changing formats or by porting the Font Software to a new
environment.

"Author" refers to any designer, engineer, programmer, technical writer or other
person who contributed to the Font Software.

PERMISSION & CONDITIONS

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
the Font Software, to use, study, copy, merge, embed, modify, redistribute, and
sell modified and unmodified copies of the Font Software, subject to the
following conditions:

1) Neither the Font Software nor any of its individual components, in Original
or Modified Versions, may be sold by itself.

2) Original or Modified Versions of the Font Software may be bundled,
redistributed and/or sold with any software, provided that each copy contains
the above copyright notice and this license. These can be included either as
stand-alone text files, human-readable headers or in the appropriate machine-
readable metadata fields within text or binary files as long as those fields can
be easily viewed by the user.

3) No Modified Version of the Font Software may use the Reserved Font Name(s)
unless explicit written permission is granted by the corresponding Copyright
Holder. This restriction only applies to the primary font name as presented to
the users.

4) The name(s) of the Copyright Holder(s) or the Author(s) of the Font Software
shall not be used to promote, endorse or advertise any Modified Version, except
to acknowledge the contribution(s) of the Copyright Holder(s) and the Author(s)
or with their explicit written permission.

5) The Font Software, modified or unmodified, in part or in whole, must be
distributed entirely under this license, and must not be distributed under any
other license. The requirement for fonts to remain under this license does not
apply to any document created using the Font Software.

TERMINATION

This license becomes null and void if any of the above conditions are not met.

DISCLAIMER

THE FONT SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF COPYRIGHT, PATENT, TRADEMARK, OR
OTHER RIGHT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE FONT SOFTWARE OR
FROM OTHER DEALINGS IN THE FONT SOFTWARE.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of PyCA Cryptography nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LGPL-2.1-only

GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2.1, February 1999

Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL.  It also counts as the
successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence the version number
2.1.]

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.

This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some specially
designated software packages--typically libraries--of the Free Software
Foundation and other authors who decide to use it. You can use it too, but we
suggest you first think carefully about whether this license or the ordinary
General Public License is the better strategy to use in any particular case,
based on the explanations below.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use, not price.
Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom
to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish);
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it; that you can change
the software and use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you are
informed that you can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid distributors to
deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these rights. These
restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute
copies of the library or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link other code
with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients, so
that they can relink them with the library after making changes to the library
and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the library, and
(2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the library.

To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that there is no
warranty for the free library. Also, if the library is modified by someone else
and passed on, the recipients should know that what they have is not the
original version, so that the original author's reputation will not be affected
by problems that might be introduced by others.

Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of any free
program. We wish to make sure that a company cannot effectively restrict the
users of a free program by obtaining a restrictive license from a patent holder.
Therefore, we insist that any patent license obtained for a version of the
library must be consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this
license.

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License. This license, the GNU Lesser General Public License,
applies to certain designated libraries, and is quite different from the
ordinary General Public License. We use this license for certain libraries in
order to permit linking those libraries into non-free programs.

When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using a shared
library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a combined work, a
derivative of the original library. The ordinary General Public License
therefore permits such linking only if the entire combination fits its criteria
of freedom. The Lesser General Public License permits more lax criteria for
linking other code with the library.

We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it does Less to
protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General Public License. It also
provides other free software developers Less of an advantage over competing non-
free programs. These disadvantages are the reason we use the ordinary General
Public License for many libraries. However, the Lesser license provides
advantages in certain special circumstances.

For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to encourage the
widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes a de-facto
standard. To achieve this, non-free programs must be allowed to use the library.
A more frequent case is that a free library does the same job as widely used
non-free libraries. In this case, there is little to gain by limiting the free
library to free software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free programs
enables a greater number of people to use a large body of free software. For
example, permission to use the GNU C Library in non-free programs enables many
more people to use the whole GNU operating system, as well as its variant, the
GNU/Linux operating system.

Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the users'
freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is linked with the
Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run that program using a modified
version of the Library.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived
from the library, whereas the latter must be combined with the library in order
to run.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other program which
contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party
saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Lesser General Public
License (also called "this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".

A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so as
to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those
functions and data) to form executables.

The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has been
distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either the
Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work
containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications
and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter,
translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)

"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
library.

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by
this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using the
Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if its
contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of the
Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the
Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete source
code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along
with the Library.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at
your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it, thus
forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such modifications
or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of
these conditions:

     a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

     b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

     c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
third parties under the terms of this License.

     d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table of
data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other than
as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a good
faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply such
function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of
its purpose remains meaningful.

(For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose that
is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore, Subsection
2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by this
function must be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square
root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with the
Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License
instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must
alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the
ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If
a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has
appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make
any other change in these notices.

Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy, so
the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and
derivative works made from that copy.

This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library into
a program that is not a library.

4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1
and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding
machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.

If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object
code.

5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but is
designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is called
a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a derivative
work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of
the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is
therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of
such executables.

When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is
part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of
the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is
especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the
work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely
defined by law.

If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts
and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in
length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether
it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus
portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)

Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the
object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables
containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked
directly with the Library itself.

6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or link a "work
that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing portions of
the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice, provided that
the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications.

You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is
used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You
must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays
copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among
them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.
Also, you must do one of these things:

     a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work
(which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an
executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work
that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can
modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing
the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents
of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile
the application to use the modified definitions.)

     b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the Library. A
suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a copy of the library
already present on the user's computer system, rather than copying library
functions into the executable, and (2) will operate properly with a modified
version of the library, if the user installs one, as long as the modified
version is interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

     c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three years,
to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a
charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

     d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials
from the same place.

     e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
that you have already sent this user a copy.

For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must
include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from
it. However, as a special exception, the materials to be distributed need not
include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form)
with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system
on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the
executable.

It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of
other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system.
Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in
an executable that you distribute.

7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library side-
by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not covered
by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that the
separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other library
facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

     a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on the
Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be distributed
under the terms of the Sections above.

     b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part of
it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the accompanying
uncombined form of the same work.

8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy,
modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will
automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who
have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their
licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any
work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Library or works based on it.

10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the Library),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these terms and
conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients'
exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing
compliance by third parties with this License.

11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library specifies
a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version",
you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version
or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the
Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any version
ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions
for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free
status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and
reuse of software generally.

NO WARRANTY

15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE
LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can
redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these
terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public
License).

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

     one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.
     Copyright (C) year  name of author

     This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

     This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more
details.

     You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA Also add information
on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in
the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written
by James Random Hacker.

signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1990
Ty Coon, President of Vice
That's all there is to it!


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LGPL-2.1-or-later

GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2.1, February 1999

Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL. It also counts as the
successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence the version number
2.1.]

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.

This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some specially
designated software packages--typically libraries--of the Free Software
Foundation and other authors who decide to use it. You can use it too, but we
suggest you first think carefully about whether this license or the ordinary
General Public License is the better strategy to use in any particular case,
based on the explanations below.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use, not price.
Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom
to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish);
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it; that you can change
the software and use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you are
informed that you can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid distributors to
deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these rights. These
restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute
copies of the library or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link other code
with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients, so
that they can relink them with the library after making changes to the library
and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the library, and
(2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the library.

To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that there is no
warranty for the free library. Also, if the library is modified by someone else
and passed on, the recipients should know that what they have is not the
original version, so that the original author's reputation will not be affected
by problems that might be introduced by others.

Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of any free
program. We wish to make sure that a company cannot effectively restrict the
users of a free program by obtaining a restrictive license from a patent holder.
Therefore, we insist that any patent license obtained for a version of the
library must be consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this
license.

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License. This license, the GNU Lesser General Public License,
applies to certain designated libraries, and is quite different from the
ordinary General Public License. We use this license for certain libraries in
order to permit linking those libraries into non-free programs.

When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using a shared
library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a combined work, a
derivative of the original library. The ordinary General Public License
therefore permits such linking only if the entire combination fits its criteria
of freedom. The Lesser General Public License permits more lax criteria for
linking other code with the library.

We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it does Less to
protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General Public License. It also
provides other free software developers Less of an advantage over competing non-
free programs. These disadvantages are the reason we use the ordinary General
Public License for many libraries. However, the Lesser license provides
advantages in certain special circumstances.

For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to encourage the
widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes a de-facto
standard. To achieve this, non-free programs must be allowed to use the library.
A more frequent case is that a free library does the same job as widely used
non-free libraries. In this case, there is little to gain by limiting the free
library to free software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free programs
enables a greater number of people to use a large body of free software. For
example, permission to use the GNU C Library in non-free programs enables many
more people to use the whole GNU operating system, as well as its variant, the
GNU/Linux operating system.

Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the users'
freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is linked with the
Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run that program using a modified
version of the Library.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived
from the library, whereas the latter must be combined with the library in order
to run.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

   0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other program
which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party
saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Lesser General Public
License (also called "this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so
as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those
functions and data) to form executables.

   The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has
been distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either
the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work
containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications
and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter,
translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)

   "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
library.

   Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using
the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if
its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of
the Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the
Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously
and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along
with the Library.

   You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also
meet all of these conditions:

      a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

      b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

      c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
third parties under the terms of this License.

      d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table
of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other
than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a
good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply
such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part
of its purpose remains meaningful.

   (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose
that is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore,
Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by
this function must be optional: if the application does not supply it, the
square root function must still compute square roots.)

   These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

   Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Library.

   In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with
the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

   3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License
instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must
alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the
ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If
a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has
appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make
any other change in these notices.

   Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy,
so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and
derivative works made from that copy.

   This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library
into a program that is not a library.

   4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1
and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding
machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.

   If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object
code.

   5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but
is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is
called a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a
derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this
License.

   However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of
the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is
therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of
such executables.

   When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is
part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of
the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is
especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the
work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely
defined by law.

   If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts
and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in
length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether
it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus
portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)

   Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the
object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables
containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked
directly with the Library itself.

   6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or link a
"work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing
portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice,
provided that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own
use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.

   You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is
used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You
must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays
copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among
them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.
Also, you must do one of these things:

      a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work
(which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an
executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work
that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can
modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing
the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents
of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile
the application to use the modified definitions.)

      b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the Library. A
suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a copy of the library
already present on the user's computer system, rather than copying library
functions into the executable, and (2) will operate properly with a modified
version of the library, if the user installs one, as long as the modified
version is interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

      c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above,
for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

      d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials
from the same place.

      e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
that you have already sent this user a copy.

   For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must
include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from
it. However, as a special exception, the materials to be distributed need not
include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form)
with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system
on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the
executable.

   It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of
other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system.
Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in
an executable that you distribute.

   7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library
side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not
covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that
the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other
library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two
things:

      a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on
the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be
distributed under the terms of the Sections above.

      b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part
of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

   8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy,
modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will
automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who
have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their
licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any
work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Library or works based on it.

   10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original
licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these
terms and conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the
recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for
enforcing compliance by third parties with this License.

   11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Library.

   If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

   It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents
or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

   This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

   12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

   13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any
version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions
for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free
status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and
reuse of software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY
"AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can
redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these
terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public
License).

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along
with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in

the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written

by James Random Hacker.

< signature of Ty Coon > , 1 April 1990

Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-3.0-or-later

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 3, 29 June 2007

Copyright © 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <https://fsf.org/>

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for software and
other kinds of works.

The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed to take
away your freedom to share and change the works. By contrast, the GNU General
Public License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change all
versions of a program--to make sure it remains free software for all its users.
We, the Free Software Foundation, use the GNU General Public License for most of
our software; it applies also to any other work released this way by its
authors. You can apply it to your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for them if you wish), that you
receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change the
software or use pieces of it in new free programs, and that you know you can do
these things.

To protect your rights, we need to prevent others from denying you these rights
or asking you to surrender the rights. Therefore, you have certain
responsibilities if you distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it:
responsibilities to respect the freedom of others.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must pass on to the recipients the same freedoms that you received. You
must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must
show them these terms so they know their rights.

Developers that use the GNU GPL protect your rights with two steps: (1) assert
copyright on the software, and (2) offer you this License giving you legal
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify it.

For the developers' and authors' protection, the GPL clearly explains that there
is no warranty for this free software. For both users' and authors' sake, the
GPL requires that modified versions be marked as changed, so that their problems
will not be attributed erroneously to authors of previous versions.

Some devices are designed to deny users access to install or run modified
versions of the software inside them, although the manufacturer can do so. This
is fundamentally incompatible with the aim of protecting users' freedom to
change the software. The systematic pattern of such abuse occurs in the area of
products for individuals to use, which is precisely where it is most
unacceptable. Therefore, we have designed this version of the GPL to prohibit
the practice for those products. If such problems arise substantially in other
domains, we stand ready to extend this provision to those domains in future
versions of the GPL, as needed to protect the freedom of users.

Finally, every program is threatened constantly by software patents. States
should not allow patents to restrict development and use of software on general-
purpose computers, but in those that do, we wish to avoid the special danger
that patents applied to a free program could make it effectively proprietary. To
prevent this, the GPL assures that patents cannot be used to render the program
non-free.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   0. Definitions.

   "This License" refers to version 3 of the GNU General Public License.

   "Copyright" also means copyright-like laws that apply to other kinds of
works, such as semiconductor masks.

   "The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this License.
Each licensee is addressed as "you". "Licensees" and "recipients" may be
individuals or organizations.

   To "modify" a work means to copy from or adapt all or part of the work in a
fashion requiring copyright permission, other than the making of an exact copy.
The resulting work is called a "modified version" of the earlier work or a work
"based on" the earlier work.

   A "covered work" means either the unmodified Program or a work based on the
Program.

   To "propagate" a work means to do anything with it that, without permission,
would make you directly or secondarily liable for infringement under applicable
copyright law, except executing it on a computer or modifying a private copy.
Propagation includes copying, distribution (with or without modification),
making available to the public, and in some countries other activities as well.

   To "convey" a work means any kind of propagation that enables other parties
to make or receive copies. Mere interaction with a user through a computer
network, with no transfer of a copy, is not conveying.

   An interactive user interface displays "Appropriate Legal Notices" to the
extent that it includes a convenient and prominently visible feature that (1)
displays an appropriate copyright notice, and (2) tells the user that there is
no warranty for the work (except to the extent that warranties are provided),
that licensees may convey the work under this License, and how to view a copy of
this License. If the interface presents a list of user commands or options, such
as a menu, a prominent item in the list meets this criterion.

   1. Source Code.

   The "source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. "Object code" means any non-source form of a work.

   A "Standard Interface" means an interface that either is an official standard
defined by a recognized standards body, or, in the case of interfaces specified
for a particular programming language, one that is widely used among developers
working in that language.

   The "System Libraries" of an executable work include anything, other than the
work as a whole, that (a) is included in the normal form of packaging a Major
Component, but which is not part of that Major Component, and (b) serves only to
enable use of the work with that Major Component, or to implement a Standard
Interface for which an implementation is available to the public in source code
form. A "Major Component", in this context, means a major essential component
(kernel, window system, and so on) of the specific operating system (if any) on
which the executable work runs, or a compiler used to produce the work, or an
object code interpreter used to run it.

   The "Corresponding Source" for a work in object code form means all the
source code needed to generate, install, and (for an executable work) run the
object code and to modify the work, including scripts to control those
activities. However, it does not include the work's System Libraries, or
general-purpose tools or generally available free programs which are used
unmodified in performing those activities but which are not part of the work.
For example, Corresponding Source includes interface definition files associated
with source files for the work, and the source code for shared libraries and
dynamically linked subprograms that the work is specifically designed to
require, such as by intimate data communication or control flow between those
subprograms and other parts of the work.

   The Corresponding Source need not include anything that users can regenerate
automatically from other parts of the Corresponding Source.

   The Corresponding Source for a work in source code form is that same work.

   2. Basic Permissions.

   All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of copyright
on the Program, and are irrevocable provided the stated conditions are met. This
License explicitly affirms your unlimited permission to run the unmodified
Program. The output from running a covered work is covered by this License only
if the output, given its content, constitutes a covered work. This License
acknowledges your rights of fair use or other equivalent, as provided by
copyright law.

   You may make, run and propagate covered works that you do not convey, without
conditions so long as your license otherwise remains in force. You may convey
covered works to others for the sole purpose of having them make modifications
exclusively for you, or provide you with facilities for running those works,
provided that you comply with the terms of this License in conveying all
material for which you do not control copyright. Those thus making or running
the covered works for you must do so exclusively on your behalf, under your
direction and control, on terms that prohibit them from making any copies of
your copyrighted material outside their relationship with you.

   Conveying under any other circumstances is permitted solely under the
conditions stated below. Sublicensing is not allowed; section 10 makes it
unnecessary.

   3. Protecting Users' Legal Rights From Anti-Circumvention Law.

   No covered work shall be deemed part of an effective technological measure
under any applicable law fulfilling obligations under article 11 of the WIPO
copyright treaty adopted on 20 December 1996, or similar laws prohibiting or
restricting circumvention of such measures.

   When you convey a covered work, you waive any legal power to forbid
circumvention of technological measures to the extent such circumvention is
effected by exercising rights under this License with respect to the covered
work, and you disclaim any intention to limit operation or modification of the
work as a means of enforcing, against the work's users, your or third parties'
legal rights to forbid circumvention of technological measures.

   4. Conveying Verbatim Copies.

   You may convey verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you receive
it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on
each copy an appropriate copyright notice; keep intact all notices stating that
this License and any non-permissive terms added in accord with section 7 apply
to the code; keep intact all notices of the absence of any warranty; and give
all recipients a copy of this License along with the Program.

   You may charge any price or no price for each copy that you convey, and you
may offer support or warranty protection for a fee.

   5. Conveying Modified Source Versions.

   You may convey a work based on the Program, or the modifications to produce
it from the Program, in the form of source code under the terms of section 4,
provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

      a) The work must carry prominent notices stating that you modified it, and
giving a relevant date.

      b) The work must carry prominent notices stating that it is released under
this License and any conditions added under section 7. This requirement modifies
the requirement in section 4 to "keep intact all notices".

      c) You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this License to
anyone who comes into possession of a copy. This License will therefore apply,
along with any applicable section 7 additional terms, to the whole of the work,
and all its parts, regardless of how they are packaged. This License gives no
permission to license the work in any other way, but it does not invalidate such
permission if you have separately received it.

      d) If the work has interactive user interfaces, each must display
Appropriate Legal Notices; however, if the Program has interactive interfaces
that do not display Appropriate Legal Notices, your work need not make them do
so.

   A compilation of a covered work with other separate and independent works,
which are not by their nature extensions of the covered work, and which are not
combined with it such as to form a larger program, in or on a volume of a
storage or distribution medium, is called an "aggregate" if the compilation and
its resulting copyright are not used to limit the access or legal rights of the
compilation's users beyond what the individual works permit. Inclusion of a
covered work in an aggregate does not cause this License to apply to the other
parts of the aggregate.

   6. Conveying Non-Source Forms.

   You may convey a covered work in object code form under the terms of sections
4 and 5, provided that you also convey the machine-readable Corresponding Source
under the terms of this License, in one of these ways:

      a) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
(including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by the Corresponding
Source fixed on a durable physical medium customarily used for software
interchange.

      b) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
(including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by a written offer,
valid for at least three years and valid for as long as you offer spare parts or
customer support for that product model, to give anyone who possesses the object
code either (1) a copy of the Corresponding Source for all the software in the
product that is covered by this License, on a durable physical medium
customarily used for software interchange, for a price no more than your
reasonable cost of physically performing this conveying of source, or (2) access
to copy the Corresponding Source from a network server at no charge.

      c) Convey individual copies of the object code with a copy of the written
offer to provide the Corresponding Source. This alternative is allowed only
occasionally and noncommercially, and only if you received the object code with
such an offer, in accord with subsection 6b.

      d) Convey the object code by offering access from a designated place
(gratis or for a charge), and offer equivalent access to the Corresponding
Source in the same way through the same place at no further charge. You need not
require recipients to copy the Corresponding Source along with the object code.
If the place to copy the object code is a network server, the Corresponding
Source may be on a different server (operated by you or a third party) that
supports equivalent copying facilities, provided you maintain clear directions
next to the object code saying where to find the Corresponding Source.
Regardless of what server hosts the Corresponding Source, you remain obligated
to ensure that it is available for as long as needed to satisfy these
requirements.

      e) Convey the object code using peer-to-peer transmission, provided you
inform other peers where the object code and Corresponding Source of the work
are being offered to the general public at no charge under subsection 6d.

   A separable portion of the object code, whose source code is excluded from
the Corresponding Source as a System Library, need not be included in conveying
the object code work.

   A "User Product" is either (1) a "consumer product", which means any tangible
personal property which is normally used for personal, family, or household
purposes, or (2) anything designed or sold for incorporation into a dwelling. In
determining whether a product is a consumer product, doubtful cases shall be
resolved in favor of coverage. For a particular product received by a particular
user, "normally used" refers to a typical or common use of that class of
product, regardless of the status of the particular user or of the way in which
the particular user actually uses, or expects or is expected to use, the
product. A product is a consumer product regardless of whether the product has
substantial commercial, industrial or non-consumer uses, unless such uses
represent the only significant mode of use of the product.

   "Installation Information" for a User Product means any methods, procedures,
authorization keys, or other information required to install and execute
modified versions of a covered work in that User Product from a modified version
of its Corresponding Source. The information must suffice to ensure that the
continued functioning of the modified object code is in no case prevented or
interfered with solely because modification has been made.

   If you convey an object code work under this section in, or with, or
specifically for use in, a User Product, and the conveying occurs as part of a
transaction in which the right of possession and use of the User Product is
transferred to the recipient in perpetuity or for a fixed term (regardless of
how the transaction is characterized), the Corresponding Source conveyed under
this section must be accompanied by the Installation Information. But this
requirement does not apply if neither you nor any third party retains the
ability to install modified object code on the User Product (for example, the
work has been installed in ROM).

   The requirement to provide Installation Information does not include a
requirement to continue to provide support service, warranty, or updates for a
work that has been modified or installed by the recipient, or for the User
Product in which it has been modified or installed. Access to a network may be
denied when the modification itself materially and adversely affects the
operation of the network or violates the rules and protocols for communication
across the network.

   Corresponding Source conveyed, and Installation Information provided, in
accord with this section must be in a format that is publicly documented (and
with an implementation available to the public in source code form), and must
require no special password or key for unpacking, reading or copying.

   7. Additional Terms.

   "Additional permissions" are terms that supplement the terms of this License
by making exceptions from one or more of its conditions. Additional permissions
that are applicable to the entire Program shall be treated as though they were
included in this License, to the extent that they are valid under applicable
law. If additional permissions apply only to part of the Program, that part may
be used separately under those permissions, but the entire Program remains
governed by this License without regard to the additional permissions.

   When you convey a copy of a covered work, you may at your option remove any
additional permissions from that copy, or from any part of it. (Additional
permissions may be written to require their own removal in certain cases when
you modify the work.) You may place additional permissions on material, added by
you to a covered work, for which you have or can give appropriate copyright
permission.

   Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, for material you add to
a covered work, you may (if authorized by the copyright holders of that
material) supplement the terms of this License with terms:

      a) Disclaiming warranty or limiting liability differently from the terms
of sections 15 and 16 of this License; or

      b) Requiring preservation of specified reasonable legal notices or author
attributions in that material or in the Appropriate Legal Notices displayed by
works containing it; or

      c) Prohibiting misrepresentation of the origin of that material, or
requiring that modified versions of such material be marked in reasonable ways
as different from the original version; or

      d) Limiting the use for publicity purposes of names of licensors or
authors of the material; or

      e) Declining to grant rights under trademark law for use of some trade
names, trademarks, or service marks; or

      f) Requiring indemnification of licensors and authors of that material by
anyone who conveys the material (or modified versions of it) with contractual
assumptions of liability to the recipient, for any liability that these
contractual assumptions directly impose on those licensors and authors.

   All other non-permissive additional terms are considered "further
restrictions" within the meaning of section 10. If the Program as you received
it, or any part of it, contains a notice stating that it is governed by this
License along with a term that is a further restriction, you may remove that
term. If a license document contains a further restriction but permits
relicensing or conveying under this License, you may add to a covered work
material governed by the terms of that license document, provided that the
further restriction does not survive such relicensing or conveying.

   If you add terms to a covered work in accord with this section, you must
place, in the relevant source files, a statement of the additional terms that
apply to those files, or a notice indicating where to find the applicable terms.

   Additional terms, permissive or non-permissive, may be stated in the form of
a separately written license, or stated as exceptions; the above requirements
apply either way.

   8. Termination.

   You may not propagate or modify a covered work except as expressly provided
under this License. Any attempt otherwise to propagate or modify it is void, and
will automatically terminate your rights under this License (including any
patent licenses granted under the third paragraph of section 11).

   However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your license from a
particular copyright holder is reinstated (a) provisionally, unless and until
the copyright holder explicitly and finally terminates your license, and (b)
permanently, if the copyright holder fails to notify you of the violation by
some reasonable means prior to 60 days after the cessation.

   Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated
permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the violation by some
reasonable means, this is the first time you have received notice of violation
of this License (for any work) from that copyright holder, and you cure the
violation prior to 30 days after your receipt of the notice.

   Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the licenses
of parties who have received copies or rights from you under this License. If
your rights have been terminated and not permanently reinstated, you do not
qualify to receive new licenses for the same material under section 10.

   9. Acceptance Not Required for Having Copies.

   You are not required to accept this License in order to receive or run a copy
of the Program. Ancillary propagation of a covered work occurring solely as a
consequence of using peer-to-peer transmission to receive a copy likewise does
not require acceptance. However, nothing other than this License grants you
permission to propagate or modify any covered work. These actions infringe
copyright if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or
propagating a covered work, you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so.

   10. Automatic Licensing of Downstream Recipients.

   Each time you convey a covered work, the recipient automatically receives a
license from the original licensors, to run, modify and propagate that work,
subject to this License. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by
third parties with this License.

   An "entity transaction" is a transaction transferring control of an
organization, or substantially all assets of one, or subdividing an
organization, or merging organizations. If propagation of a covered work results
from an entity transaction, each party to that transaction who receives a copy
of the work also receives whatever licenses to the work the party's predecessor
in interest had or could give under the previous paragraph, plus a right to
possession of the Corresponding Source of the work from the predecessor in
interest, if the predecessor has it or can get it with reasonable efforts.

   You may not impose any further restrictions on the exercise of the rights
granted or affirmed under this License. For example, you may not impose a
license fee, royalty, or other charge for exercise of rights granted under this
License, and you may not initiate litigation (including a cross-claim or
counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that any patent claim is infringed by
making, using, selling, offering for sale, or importing the Program or any
portion of it.

   11. Patents.

   A "contributor" is a copyright holder who authorizes use under this License
of the Program or a work on which the Program is based. The work thus licensed
is called the contributor's "contributor version".

   A contributor's "essential patent claims" are all patent claims owned or
controlled by the contributor, whether already acquired or hereafter acquired,
that would be infringed by some manner, permitted by this License, of making,
using, or selling its contributor version, but do not include claims that would
be infringed only as a consequence of further modification of the contributor
version. For purposes of this definition, "control" includes the right to grant
patent sublicenses in a manner consistent with the requirements of this License.

   Each contributor grants you a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent
license under the contributor's essential patent claims, to make, use, sell,
offer for sale, import and otherwise run, modify and propagate the contents of
its contributor version.

   In the following three paragraphs, a "patent license" is any express
agreement or commitment, however denominated, not to enforce a patent (such as
an express permission to practice a patent or covenant not to sue for patent
infringement). To "grant" such a patent license to a party means to make such an
agreement or commitment not to enforce a patent against the party.

   If you convey a covered work, knowingly relying on a patent license, and the
Corresponding Source of the work is not available for anyone to copy, free of
charge and under the terms of this License, through a publicly available network
server or other readily accessible means, then you must either (1) cause the
Corresponding Source to be so available, or (2) arrange to deprive yourself of
the benefit of the patent license for this particular work, or (3) arrange, in a
manner consistent with the requirements of this License, to extend the patent
license to downstream recipients. "Knowingly relying" means you have actual
knowledge that, but for the patent license, your conveying the covered work in a
country, or your recipient's use of the covered work in a country, would
infringe one or more identifiable patents in that country that you have reason
to believe are valid.

   If, pursuant to or in connection with a single transaction or arrangement,
you convey, or propagate by procuring conveyance of, a covered work, and grant a
patent license to some of the parties receiving the covered work authorizing
them to use, propagate, modify or convey a specific copy of the covered work,
then the patent license you grant is automatically extended to all recipients of
the covered work and works based on it.

   A patent license is "discriminatory" if it does not include within the scope
of its coverage, prohibits the exercise of, or is conditioned on the non-
exercise of one or more of the rights that are specifically granted under this
License. You may not convey a covered work if you are a party to an arrangement
with a third party that is in the business of distributing software, under which
you make payment to the third party based on the extent of your activity of
conveying the work, and under which the third party grants, to any of the
parties who would receive the covered work from you, a discriminatory patent
license (a) in connection with copies of the covered work conveyed by you (or
copies made from those copies), or (b) primarily for and in connection with
specific products or compilations that contain the covered work, unless you
entered into that arrangement, or that patent license was granted, prior to 28
March 2007.

   Nothing in this License shall be construed as excluding or limiting any
implied license or other defenses to infringement that may otherwise be
available to you under applicable patent law.

   12. No Surrender of Others' Freedom.

   If conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse
you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot convey a covered work so
as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other
pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not convey it at all. For
example, if you agree to terms that obligate you to collect a royalty for
further conveying from those to whom you convey the Program, the only way you
could satisfy both those terms and this License would be to refrain entirely
from conveying the Program.

   13. Use with the GNU Affero General Public License.

   Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, you have permission to
link or combine any covered work with a work licensed under version 3 of the GNU
Affero General Public License into a single combined work, and to convey the
resulting work. The terms of this License will continue to apply to the part
which is the covered work, but the special requirements of the GNU Affero
General Public License, section 13, concerning interaction through a network
will apply to the combination as such.

   14. Revised Versions of this License.

   The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
GNU General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar
in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new
problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies that a certain numbered version of the GNU General Public License "or
any later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that numbered version or of any later version published by
the Free Software Foundation. If the Program does not specify a version number
of the GNU General Public License, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation.

   If the Program specifies that a proxy can decide which future versions of the
GNU General Public License can be used, that proxy's public statement of
acceptance of a version permanently authorizes you to choose that version for
the Program.

   Later license versions may give you additional or different permissions.
However, no additional obligations are imposed on any author or copyright holder
as a result of your choosing to follow a later version.

   15. Disclaimer of Warranty.

   THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER
PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE
QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE
DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   16. Limitation of Liability.

   IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MODIFIES AND/OR CONVEYS THE PROGRAM
AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

   17. Interpretation of Sections 15 and 16.

If the disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability provided above cannot
be given local legal effect according to their terms, reviewing courts shall
apply local law that most closely approximates an absolute waiver of all civil
liability in connection with the Program, unless a warranty or assumption of
liability accompanies a copy of the Program in return for a fee.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively state the exclusion of
warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a pointer
to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program does terminal interaction, make it output a short notice like
this when it starts in an interactive mode:

<program> Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.

This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain
conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, your program's commands might be
different; for a GUI interface, you would use an "about box".

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or school, if
any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. For more
information on this, and how to apply and follow the GNU GPL, see
<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

The GNU General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs. If your program is a subroutine library, you may consider
it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the library. If
this is what you want to do, use the GNU Lesser General Public License instead
of this License. But first, please read <https://www.gnu.org/ licenses /why-not-
lgpl.html>.



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0-or-later

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. This General Public License applies to most
of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose
authors commit to using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is
covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must show them
these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program will individually
obtain patent licenses, in effect making the program proprietary. To prevent
this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's free
use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

   0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice
placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such program or
work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or any
derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
translated into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without
limitation in the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running the Program is
not restricted, and the output from the Program is covered only if its contents
constitute a work based on the Program (independent of having been made by
running the Program). Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code
as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program
a copy of this License along with the Program.

   You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also
meet all of these conditions:

      a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

      b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole
or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be
licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this
License.

      c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the most
ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License. (Exception:
if the Program itself is interactive but does not normally print such an
announcement, your work based on the Program is not required to print an
announcement.)

   These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

   Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Program.

   In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with
the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

   3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under
Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above provided that you also do one of the following:

      a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

      b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of physically
performing source distribution, a complete machine-readable copy of the
corresponding source code, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

      c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to
distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form with such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

   The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation
of the executable. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed
need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or
binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself
accompanies the executable.

   If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to
copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source
code from the same place counts as distribution of the source code, even though
third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

   4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Program
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or any
work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Program or works based on it.

   6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third
parties to this License.

   7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Program at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Program by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Program.

   If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and the
section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

   It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents
or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system, which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

   This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

   8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

   9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar
in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new
problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Program does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose
any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM
"AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and an idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) <yyyy> <name of author>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin
Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author Gnomovision comes with
ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software, and
you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c' for
details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

< signature of Ty Coon > , 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-3-Clause, in
this context BSD-3-Clause has bee chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-3-Clause. For convenience
all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright notices

Copyright (C) 2019 Red Hat, Inc.
Alberto Silva <alberto.junior@gmail.com>, 2012
Daniel <veillard@redhat.com>, 2011
FÃ¡bio OlivÃ <fabio.olive@gmail.com>, 2013
Glaucia Freitas <gcintra@redhat.com>, 2008, 2013
Herli Joaquim de Menezes <herlimenezes@gmail.com>, 2008
Igor Pires Soares <igor@projetofedora.org>, 2006, 2007, 2008
Marcelo Barbosa <firemanxbr@fedoraproject.org>, 2013
marioitalo <marioitalo@yahoo.com.br>, 2008, 2009
Paulo Sergio Klaus <klauspaulo@gmail.com>, 2013
Rafael Ferreira <rafael.f.f1@gmail.com>, 2012
Frederico Henrique Gonçalves Lima <fred@fredericolima.com.br>, 2016
Filipe Rosset <rosset.filipe@gmail.com>, 2017
Adolfo Jayme Barrientos <fitoschido@gmail.com>, 2020.
Copyright Microsoft Corp. 2020-2021
Copyright Intel Corp. 2020-2021
Copyright IBM Corp. 2020
Copyright IBM Corp. 2014
Copyright IBM Corp. 2012
Copyright IBM Corp. 2008
Copyright IBM Corp, 2020
Copyright 2017 Pierre Ossman for Cendio AB
Copyright 2014, diateam (www.diateam.net)
Copyright 2010, diateam (www.diateam.net)
Copyright (c) 2023, Ventana Micro
Copyright (c) 2016 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH, Nuernberg, Germany.
Copyright (c) 2015 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH, Nuernberg, Germany.
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH, Nuernberg, Germany.
Copyright (c) 2014 David Kiarie Kahurani
Copyright (c) 2013. Doug Goldstein <cardoe@cardoe.com>
Copyright (c) 2013-2015 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH, Nuernberg, Germany.
Copyright (c) 2013, Doug Goldstein (cardoe@cardoe.com)
Copyright (c) 2013 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH, Nuernberg, Germany.
Copyright (c) 2011-2013 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH, Nuernberg, Germany.
Copyright (c) 2011 NetApp, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011 Lai Jiangshan
Copyright (C) Temuri Doghonadze <temuri.doghonadze@gmail.com>, 2022, 2023. 
Copyright (C) Remus-Gabriel Chelu <remusgabriel.chelu@disroot.org>, 2023.
Copyright (C) Red Hat, Inc. 2019
Copyright (C) Red Hat, Inc. 2014
Copyright (C) Muha Aliss <muhaaliss@gmail.com>, 2021.
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2010
Copyright (C) Gogo Gogsi <linux.hr@protonmail.com>, 2022.
Copyright (C) Canonical Ltd. 2012
Copyright (C) 2023, Ventana Micro
Copyright (C) 2023 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2022 by Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2022 Virtuozzo International GmbH
Copyright (C) 2022 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2022 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2021 SUSE LLC
Copyright (C) 2021 Roman Bogorodskiy
Copyright (C) 2021 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021 Datto Inc
Copyright (C) 2021 Canonical Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 Fabian Freyer
Copyright (C) 2020 Datto Inc
Copyright (C) 2019 by Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2019 IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018 Clementine Hayat.
Copyright (C) 2018 Chen Hanxiao
Copyright (C) 2017-2019 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH, Nuernberg, Germany.
Copyright (C) 2017 Roman Bogorodskiy
Copyright (C) 2017 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2017 Datto Inc
Copyright (C) 2016-2019 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH, Nuernberg, Germany.
Copyright (C) 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016 Fabian Freyer
Copyright (C) 2015-2020 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd
Copyright (C) 2015 Red Hat, Inc., and the authors listed in the libvirt AUTHORS
file.
Copyright (C) 2015 Red Hat, Inc.,
Copyright (C) 2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Pavel Fedin
Copyright (C) 2015 Mirantis, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Midokura, Sarl.
Copyright (C) 2015 Midokura Sarl.
Copyright (C) 2014-2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH, Nuernberg, Germany.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014, Taowei Luo (uaedante@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2014, 2018 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014, 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Taowei Luo (uaedante@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2014 Semihalf
Copyright (C) 2014 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH, Nuernberg, Germany.
Copyright (C) 2014 Roman Bogorodskiy
Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Parallels, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Nehal J Wani
Copyright (C) 2014 David Kiarie Kahurani
Copyright (C) 2014 Conrad Meyer
Copyright (C) 2014 Cloudwatt
Copyright (C) 2013. Doug Goldstein <cardoe@cardoe.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2019 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013-2018 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013-2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Red Hat, Inc., and the authors listed in the libvirt
AUTHORS file.
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013, 2014, 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013, 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Yuto KAWAMURA(kawamuray) <kawamuray.dadada@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH, Nuernberg, Germany.
Copyright (C) 2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013 Fujitsu, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Ata E Husain Bohra <ata.husain@hotmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012-2021 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012-2019 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012-2018 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012-2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012-2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012-2014, 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Matthias Bolte <matthias.bolte@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012, 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012, 2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012, 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 by Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Wido den Hollander
Copyright (C) 2012 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Parallels, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Nicira, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2012 Guido Günther
Copyright (C) 2012 Fujitsu.
Copyright (C) 2012 Fujitsu Limited.
Copyright (C) 2012 Doug Goldstein <cardoe@cardoe.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Ata E Husain Bohra <ata.husain@hotmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2019 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2015 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH, Nuernberg, Germany.
Copyright (C) 2011-2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2014 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH, Nuernberg, Germany.
Copyright (C) 2011-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2013, 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Matthias Bolte <matthias.bolte@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012, 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011,2012 IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2011, 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011, 2013, 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011, 2013, 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011, 2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 Univention GmbH.
Copyright (C) 2011 Univention GmbH
Copyright (C) 2011 Srivatsa S. Bhat <srivatsa.bhat@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 Matthias Bolte <matthias.bolte@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2019 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2017 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2015,2018 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2014, diateam (www.diateam.net)
Copyright (C) 2010-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2013, 2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2012, 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2012, 2016 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2010-2012, 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Stefan Berger
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Matthias Bolte <matthias.bolte@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 David L Stevens
Copyright (C) 2010-2011, 2014, 2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2011, 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2011, 2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Stefan Berger
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2010, 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010, 2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010, 2012 IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2010 Stefan Berger
Copyright (C) 2010 Satoru SATOH <satoru.satoh@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 Novell, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 Matthias Bolte <matthias.bolte@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2010 IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2010 Hu Tao
Copyright (C) 2010 Eric Blake
Copyright (C) 2010 Daniel Veillard
Copyright (C) 2010 Daniel P. Berrange
Copyright (C) 2009-2018 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2017 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2014, 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2014 Matthias Bolte <matthias.bolte@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2013, 2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2013 by Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2012, 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2012, 2014 Matthias Bolte <matthias.bolte@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2012 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2011, 2015 Matthias Bolte <matthias.bolte@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2011, 2014-2015 Matthias Bolte
<matthias.bolte@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2011, 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2011, 2013-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2011, 2013, 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2011 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2011 Matthias Bolte <matthias.bolte@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2011 Canonical Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2009-2010, 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2010, 2013-2014, 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2010, 2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2010, 2012-2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Matthias Bolte <matthias.bolte@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Canonical Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2009-2009 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2008 Dave Allan
Copyright (C) 2009, 2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009, 2012-2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009, 2012-2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009, 2011-2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009, 2011-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009, 2010 Matthias Bolte <matthias.bolte@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 by Daniel P. Berrangé
Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009 Michael Sievers <msievers83@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Maximilian Wilhelm <max@rfc2324.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Matthias Bolte <matthias.bolte@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2009 Daniel P. Berrange
Copyright (C) 2009 Canonical Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2008-2022 Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Copyright (C) 2008-2020 Oracle Corporation
Copyright (C) 2008-2019 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2013, 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2012 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2009, 2011 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008, 2010-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008, 2010-2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008, 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 VirtualIron
Copyright (C) 2008 Virtual Iron Software, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2008 David F. Lively
Copyright (C) 2008 Daniel P. Berrange
Copyright (C) 2007-2020 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2019 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2018 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2017 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2012, 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2012 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2011, 2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2009, 2012-2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008, 2013-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008, 2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008, 2010-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008, 2010, 2013, 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Daniel P. Berrange
Copyright (C) 2007, 2011-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007, 2011-2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007, 2010-2011, 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007, 2010, 2012-2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007, 2010, 2012 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 Daniel P. Berrange <berrange redhat com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Daniel P. Berrange
Copyright (C) 2007 Anoop Joe Cyriac
Copyright (C) 2006-2020 Red Hat, Inc., and the authors listed in the libvirt
AUTHORS file.
Copyright (C) 2006-2020 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2019 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2018 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2015 Red Hat, Inc., and the authors listed in the libvirt
AUTHORS file.
Copyright (C) 2006-2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2014, 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2013 Red Hat, Inc., and the authors listed in the libvirt
AUTHORS file.
Copyright (C) 2006-2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2012, 2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2012, 2014-2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2012, 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2012 by Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2012 Red Hat, Inc., and the authors listed in the libvirt
AUTHORS file.
Copyright (C) 2006-2012 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2011, 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2011 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2010, 2013-2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2010, 2012-2018 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2009, 2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2009, 2011-2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2009, 2011-2012 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008, 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008, 2011-2012 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008, 2010-2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008, 2010-2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Daniel P. Berrange
Copyright (C) 2006-2007, 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2007, 2009-2017 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2007, 2009-2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2007, 2009-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2007, 2009-2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2007, 2009-2012 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2007, 2009-2010 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2006 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 Binary Karma.
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 Binary Karma
Copyright (C) 2006 Shuveb Hussain
Copyright (C) 2006 Daniel P. Berrange
Copyright (C) 2005-2019 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2008, 2011-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2008, 2010-2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2006, 2008-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005, 2008-2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005, 2007-2019 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005, 2007-2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005, 2007-2015 Red Hat, Inc., and the authors listed in the
libvirt AUTHORS file.
Copyright (C) 2005, 2007-2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005, 2007-2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005, 2007-2012 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001-2022 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2000 Bjorn Reese and Daniel Veillard.
Copyright (C) 1995-2004 Miquel van Smoorenburg
Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C)  Hela Basa <r45xveza@pm.me>, 2021.

libvirt Authors
===============


The libvirt project was initiated by:

* Daniel Veillard <veillard@redhat.com> or <daniel@veillard.com>

The primary maintainers and people with commit access rights:

* Andrea Bolognani <abologna@redhat.com>
* CÃ©dric Bosdonnat <cbosdonnat@suse.com>
* Christian Ehrhardt <christian.ehrhardt@canonical.com>
* Christophe Fergeau <cfergeau@redhat.com>
* Cole Robinson <crobinso@redhat.com>
* Daniel P. BerrangÃ© <berrange@redhat.com>
* Daniel Veillard <veillard@redhat.com>
* Eric Blake <eblake@redhat.com>
* Erik Skultety <eskultet@redhat.com>
* Fabiano FidÃªncio <fidencio@redhat.com>
* Guido GÃ¼nther <agx@sigxcpu.org>
* JÃ¡n Tomko <jtomko@redhat.com>
* Jim Fehlig <jfehlig@suse.com>
* JiÅÃ­ Denemark <jdenemar@redhat.com>
* Laine Stump <laine@redhat.com>
* Martin Kletzander <mkletzan@redhat.com>
* Michal PrÃ­voznÃ­k <mprivozn@redhat.com>
* Nikolay Shirokovskiy <nshirokovskiy@openvz.org>
* Pavel Hrdina <phrdina@redhat.com>
* Peter Krempa <pkrempa@redhat.com>
* Pino Toscano <ptoscano@redhat.com>
* Richard W.M. Jones <rjones@redhat.com>
* Roman Bogorodskiy <bogorodskiy@gmail.com>
* Tim Wiederhake <twiederh@redhat.com>

Previous maintainers:

* Alex Jia <ajia@redhat.com>
* Anthony Liguori <aliguori@us.ibm.com>
* Atsushi SAKAI <sakaia@jp.fujitsu.com>
* Chris Lalancette <clalance@redhat.com>
* Claudio Bley <claudio.bley@gmail.com>
* Dan Smith <danms@us.ibm.com>
* Dave Allan <dallan@redhat.com>
* Dave Leskovec <dlesko@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Dmitry Guryanov <dguryanov@parallels.com>
* Doug Goldstein <cardoe@gentoo.org>
* Gao Feng <gaofeng@cn.fujitsu.com>
* Guannan Ren <gren@redhat.com>
* Jim Meyering <meyering@redhat.com>
* John Ferlan <jferlan@redhat.com>
* John Levon <john.levon@sun.com>
* Justin Clift <jclift@redhat.com>
* Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
* Katerina Koukiou <kkoukiou@redhat.com>
* Mark McLoughlin <markmc@redhat.com>
* Matthias Bolte <matthias.bolte@googlemail.com>
* Maxim Nestratov <mnestratov@virtuozzo.com>
* Osier Yang <jyang@redhat.com>
* Stefan Berger <stefanb@us.ibm.com>
* Wen Congyang <wency@cn.fujitsu.com>

Patches have also been contributed by:

* Abel MÃ­guez RodrÃ­guez <amiguezr@pdi.ucm.es>
* Amit Shah <amit.shah@redhat.com>
* Andrew Puch <apuch@redhat.com>
* Anton Protopopov <aspsk2@gmail.com>
* Ben Guthro <ben.guthro@gmail.com>
* Daniel Hokka Zakrisson <daniel@hozac.com>
* Dan Wendlandt <dan@nicira.com>
* David Lively <dlively@virtualiron.com>
* David Lutterkort <dlutter@redhat.com>
* Evgeniy Sokolov <evg@openvz.org>
* Hugh Brock <hbrock@redhat.com>
* Itamar Heim <iheim@redhat.com>
* James Morris <jmorris@namei.org>
* Javier Fontan <jfontan@gmail.com>
* Jeremy Katz <katzj@redhat.com>
* Kaitlin Rupert <kaitlin@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Kazuki Mizushima <mizushima.kazuk@jp.fujitsu.com>
* Mads Chr. Olesen <shiyee@shiyee.dk>
* Mark Johnson <johnson.nh@gmail.com>
* Markus Armbruster <armbru@redhat.com>
* Masayuki Sunou <fj1826dm@aa.jp.fujitsu.com>
* Matthias Witte <witte@netzquadrat.de>
* Michel Ponceau <michel.ponceau@bull.net>
* Nobuhiro Itou <fj0873gn@aa.jp.fujitsu.com>
* Pete Vetere <pvetere@redhat.com>
* Philippe Berthault <philippe.berthault@Bull.net>
* Saori Fukuta <fukuta.saori@jp.fujitsu.com>
* Shigeki Sakamoto <fj0588di@aa.jp.fujitsu.com>
* Shuveb Hussain <shuveb@binarykarma.com>
* Stefan de Konink <dekonink@kinkrsoftware.nl>
* Takahashi Tomohiro <takatom@jp.fujitsu.com>
* Tatsuro Enokura <fj7716hz@aa.jp.fujitsu.com>

* Adam Litke <agl@us.ibm.com>
* Adam Walters <adam@pandorasboxen.com>
* Adolfo Jayme Barrientos <fitoschido@gmail.com>
* Adrian Brzezinski <adrian.brzezinski@eo.pl>
* Akarshan Biswas <akarshan.biswas@gmail.com>
* Akihiko Odaki <akihiko.odaki@daynix.com>
* Alan Pevec <apevec@redhat.com>
* Aleksandr Alekseev <alexander.alekseev@virtuozzo.com>
* Aleksei Zakharov <zaharov@selectel.ru>
* Ales Musil <amusil@redhat.com>
* Alex Jia <ajia@redhat.com>
* Alex Williamson <alex.williamson@redhat.com>
* Alexander Burluka <aburluka@parallels.com>
* Alexander Burluka <aburluka@virtuozzo.com>
* Alexander Larsson <alexl@redhat.com>
* Alexander Nusov <alexander.nusov@nfvexpress.com>
* Alexander Todorov <atodorov@otb.bg>
* Alexander Vasilenko <kaperang07@gmail.com>
* Aline Manera <alinefm@br.ibm.com>
* Allen, John <John.Allen@amd.com>
* Alon Levy <alevy@redhat.com>
* Alvaro Polo <apoloval@gmail.com>
* Amneesh Singh <natto@weirdnatto.in>
* Amy Fong <amy.fong@windriver.com>
* Amy Griffis <amy.griffis@hp.com>
* Anastasia Belova <abelova@astralinux.ru>
* Anatole Denis <natolumin@gmail.com>
* Andika Triwidada <andika@gmail.com>
* Andrea Bolognani <abologna@redhat.com>
* Andres Lagar-Cavilla <andres@lagarcavilla.org>
* Andrew Melnychenko <andrew@daynix.com>
* Andrew Miloradovsky <andrew@interpretmath.pw>
* Ani Sinha <ani.sinha@nutanix.com>
* Ani Sinha <ani@anisinha.ca>
* Anirban Chakraborty <abchak@juniper.net>
* Ansis Atteka <aatteka@nicira.com>
* Anthony Liguori <aliguori@us.ibm.com>
* Anthony PERARD <anthony.perard@citrix.com>
* Antoine Millet <antoine.millet@tdf.fr>
* Anton Khramov <anton@endocode.com>
* Antoni S. Puimedon <asegurap@redhat.com>
* Antoni Segura Puimedon <toni@midokura.com>
* Anya Harter <aharter@redhat.com>
* Arnaud Patard <apatard@hupstream.com>
* Aron Griffis <aron.griffis@hp.com>
* Artur Puzio <contact@puzio.waw.pl>
* Asad Saeed <asad.saeed@acidseed.com>
* Ashish Mittal <Ashish.Mittal@veritas.com>
* Ashish Mittal <ashmit602@gmail.com>
* Ata E Husain Bohra <ata.husain@hotmail.com>
* Atsushi Kumagai <kumagai-atsushi@mxc.nes.nec.co.jp>
* Atsushi SAKAI <sakaia@jp.fujitsu.com>
* Aurelien Rougemont <beorn@binaries.fr>
* BalÃ¡zs MeskÃ³ <meskobalazs@mailbox.org>
* Bamvor Jian Zhang <bamv2005@gmail.com>
* Bamvor Jian Zhang <bjzhang@suse.com>
* Barrett Schonefeld <bschoney@utexas.edu>
* Bastian Germann <bastiangermann@fishpost.de>
* Bastien Orivel <bastien.orivel@diateam.net>
* Beat JÃ¶rg <Beat.Joerg@ssatr.ch>
* Ben Gray <ben.r.gray@gmail.com>
* Benjamin Cama <benoar@dolka.fr>
* Bharata B Rao <bharata@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* BiaoXiang Ye <yebiaoxiang@huawei.com>
* Bihong Yu <yubihong@huawei.com>
* Binfeng Wu <wubinfeng@huawei.com>
* Bing Bu Cao <mars@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Bing Niu <bing.niu@intel.com>
* Bjoern Walk <bwalk@linux.ibm.com>
* Bjoern Walk <bwalk@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Bob Liu <bob.liu@oracle.com>
* Bobo Du <dubo163@126.com>
* Bogdan Purcareata <bogdan.purcareata@freescale.com>
* Boris Fiuczynski <fiuczy@linux.ibm.com>
* Boris Fiuczynski <fiuczy@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Brandon Bennett <bbennett@fb.com>
* Brian Candler <b.candler@pobox.com>
* Brian Turek <brian.turek@gmail.com>
* Brijesh Singh <brijesh.singh@amd.com>
* Brooks Swinnerton <bswinnerton@gmail.com>
* Bruno Haible <bruno@clisp.org>
* Bryan Kearney <bkearney@redhat.com>
* Cao jin <caoj.fnst@cn.fujitsu.com>
* Carlos Bilbao <carlos.bilbao@amd.com>
* Carlos Santos <casantos@redhat.com>
* Casey Callendrello <cdc@redhat.com>
* Cedric Bosdonnat <cbosdonnat@suse.com>
* Chang Liu <lingjiao.lc@taobao.com>
* Chao Fan <fanc.fnst@cn.fujitsu.com>
* Charles Duffy <charles_duffy@messageone.com>
* Chegu Vinod <chegu_vinod@hp.com>
* Chen Fan <chen.fan.fnst@cn.fujitsu.com>
* Chen Hanxiao <chen_han_xiao@126.com>
* Chen Hanxiao <chenhanxiao@cn.fujitsu.com>
* Chen Hanxiao <chenhanxiao@gmail.com>
* Cheng Lin <cheng.lin130@zte.com.cn>
* Chris Coulson <chris.coulson@canonical.com>
* Chris J Arges <chris.j.arges@canonical.com>
* Chris Jester-Young <cky@cky.nz>
* Chris Lalancette <clalance@redhat.com>
* Chris Mayo <aklhfex@gmail.com>
* Chris St. Pierre <chris.a.st.pierre@gmail.com>
* Chris Venteicher <cventeic@redhat.com>
* Chris Wong <wongc-redhat@hoku.net>
* Chris Wright <chrisw@redhat.com>
* Christian Benvenuti <benve@cisco.com>
* Christian Ehrhardt <christian.ehrhardt@canonical.com>
* Christian Franke <nobody@nowhere.ws>
* Christian Kirbach <christian.kirbach@gmail.com>
* Christian Loehle <cloehle@linutronix.de>
* Christian Nautze <christian.nautze@exoscale.ch>
* Christian Schoenebeck <qemu_oss@crudebyte.com>
* Christoffer Dall <cdall@linaro.org>
* Christophe Fergeau <cfergeau@redhat.com>
* Christophe de Dinechin <dinechin@redhat.com>
* Chuck Short <chuck.short@canonical.com>
* Chuck Short <zulcss@gmail.com>
* Chunhe Li <lichunhe@huawei.com>
* Chunyan Liu <cyliu@suse.com>
* Clark Laughlin <clark.laughlin@linaro.org>
* Claudio AndrÃ© <claudioandre.br@gmail.com>
* Claudio Bley <claudio.bley@gmail.com>
* Claudio Fontana <cfontana@suse.de>
* Clementine Hayat <clem@lse.epita.fr>
* Cole Robinson <crobinso@redhat.com>
* Collin L. Walling <walling@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Collin Walling <walling@linux.ibm.com>
* Conrad Meyer <cse.cem@gmail.com>
* Corey S. McQuay <csmcquay@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Cornelia Huck <cohuck@redhat.com>
* Cristian Klein <cristiklein@gmail.com>
* CÃ©dric Bosdonnat <cbosdonnat@suse.com>
* CÃ´me Borsoi <fedora@borsoi.fr>
* Dan HorÃ¡k <dan@danny.cz>
* Dan Kenigsberg <danken@redhat.com>
* Dan Smith <danms@us.ibm.com>
* Dan Zheng <dzheng@redhat.com>
* Daniel Berteaud <daniel@firewall-services.com>
* Daniel Gollub <gollub@b1-systems.de>
* Daniel Hansel <daniel.hansel@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Daniel Henrique Barboza <danielhb413@gmail.com>
* Daniel Henrique Barboza <dbarboza@ventanamicro.com>
* Daniel J Walsh <dwalsh@redhat.com>
* Daniel Letai <dani@letai.org.il>
* Daniel Liu <srwx4096@gmail.com>
* Daniel Nicoletti <dantti12@gmail.com>
* Daniel P. BerrangÃ© <berrange@redhat.com>
* Daniel Veillard <veillard@redhat.com>
* DankahÃ¡zi (ifj.) IstvÃ¡n <dankahazi.istvan@gmail.com>
* Dario Faggioli <dario.faggioli@citrix.com>
* Dario Faggioli <dfaggioli@suse.com>
* Darryl L. Pierce <dpierce@redhat.com>
* Dave Allan <dallan@redhat.com>
* David Dai <zdai@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* David Jorm <dfj@redhat.com>
* David Kiarie <davidkiarie4@gmail.com>
* David L Stevens <dlstevens@us.ibm.com>
* David L. Leskovec <dlesko@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* David Mansfield <dmansfield@gmail.com>
* David Michael <david@bigbadwolfsecurity.com>
* David S. Wang <dwang2@cisco.com>
* David Shane Holden <dpejesh@yahoo.com>
* David Weber <wb@munzinger.de>
* Davidlohr Bueso <dave@gnu.org>
* Dawid Zamirski <dzamirski@datto.com>
* Dawid Zamirski <dzamirski@dattobackup.com>
* Dawid Zamirski <dzrudy@gmail.com>
* Deepak C Shetty <dpkshetty@gmail.com>
* Denis Kondratenko <denis.kondratenko@gmail.com>
* Dennis Chen <xschen@tnsoft.com.cn>
* Derbyshev Dmitry <dderbyshev@virtuozzo.com>
* Didik Supriadi <didiksupriadi41@gmail.com>
* Diego Elio Pettenò <flameeyes@gmail.com>
* Diego Michelotto <diego.michelotto@cnaf.infn.it>
* Diego Woitasen <diego.woitasen@vhgroup.net>
* Dipankar Sarma <dipankar@in.ibm.com>
* Dirk Herrendoerfer <d.herrendoerfer@herrendoerfer.name>
* Divya Garg <divya.garg@nutanix.com>
* Dmitrii Shcherbakov <dmitrii.shcherbakov@canonical.com>
* Dmitry Andreev <dandreev@virtuozzo.com>
* Dmitry Guryanov <dguryanov@parallels.com>
* Dmitry Mishin <dim@virtuozzo.com>
* Dmitry Nesterenko <dmitry.nesterenko@virtuozzo.com>
* Dmytro Linkin <dlinkin@nvidia.com>
* Dominick Grift <dac.override@gmail.com>
* Dominik Perpeet <dperpeet@redhat.com>
* Don Dugger <n0ano@n0ano.com>
* Doug Goldstein <cardoe@cardoe.com>
* Douglas Schilling Landgraf <dougsland@redhat.com>
* Duncan Rance <libvirt@dunquino.com>
* Dustin Kirkland <kirkland@canonical.com>
* Dustin Xiong <x_k_123@hotmail.com>
* Dusty Mabe <dustymabe@gmail.com>
* Dwight Engen <dwight.engen@oracle.com>
* Ed Swierk <eswierk@aristanetworks.com>
* Edan David <edand@mellanox.com>
* Eduardo Costa <eduardobmc@gmail.com>
* Eduardo Habkost <ehabkost@redhat.com>
* Eduardo Otubo <otubo@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Eiichi Tsukata <eiichi.tsukata.xh@hitachi.com>
* Eiichi Tsukata <eiichi.tsukata@nutanix.com>
* Eli Qiao <liyong.qiao@intel.com>
* Eli Qiao <taget@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Emilio Herrera <ehespinosa57@gmail.com>
* Eric Blake <eblake@redhat.com>
* Eric Farman <farman@linux.ibm.com>
* Eric Farman <farman@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Eric Garver <eric@garver.life>
* Eric W. Biederman <ebiederm@xmission.com>
* Eric van Blokland <mail@ericvanblokland.nl>
* Erik Skultety <eskultet@redhat.com>
* Ersek Laszlo <lacos@caesar.elte.hu>
* Ettore Atalan <atalanttore@googlemail.com>
* Eugen Feller <eugen.feller@inria.fr>
* Eugenio Pérez <eperezma@redhat.com>
* Fabian Affolter <mail@fabian-affolter.ch>
* Fabian Freyer <fabian.freyer@physik.tu-berlin.de>
* Fabiano Fidêncio <fidencio@redhat.com>
* Fangge Jin <fjin@redhat.com>
* Farhan Ali <alifm@linux.ibm.com>
* Farhan Ali <alifm@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Federico Simoncelli <fsimonce@redhat.com>
* Felix Geyer <debfx@fobos.de>
* Felix Geyer <fgeyer@debian.org>
* Filip Alac <filipalac@gmail.com>
* Florian Vichot <florian.vichot@diateam.net>
* Francesc Guasch <frankie@etsetb.upc.edu>
* Francesco Romani <fromani@redhat.com>
* Franck Ridel <fridel@protonmail.com>
* Frank Schreuder <fschreuder@transip.nl>
* Fred A. Kemp <anonym@riseup.net>
* Frediano Ziglio <frediano.ziglio@citrix.com>
* Frediano Ziglio <fziglio@redhat.com>
* Frido Roose <frido.roose@gmail.com>
* Fritz Elfert <fritz@fritz-elfert.de>
* Félix Bouliane <felixbouliane@gmail.com>
* Gao feng <gaofeng@cn.fujitsu.com>
* Garry Dolley <gdolley@arpnetworks.com>
* Gary R Hook <grhookatwork@gmail.com>
* Gaurav Agrawal <agrawalgaurav@gnome.org>
* Gedalya <gedalya@gedalya.net>
* Gema Gomez <gema.gomez-solano@linaro.org>
* Gene Czarcinski <gene@czarc.net>
* Geoff Hickey <ghickey@datagravity.com>
* George Dunlap <george.dunlap@citrix.com>
* Gerd Hoffmann <kraxel@redhat.com>
* Gerd v. Egidy <gerd@egidy.de>
* Gerhard Stenzel <gerhard.stenzel@de.ibm.com>
* Giuseppe Scrivano <gscrivan@redhat.com>
* Gogo Gogsi <linux.hr@protonmail.com>
* Gordon Messmer <gordon@dragonsdawn.net>
* Gregor Kopka <gregor@kopka.net>
* Guan Qiang <hzguanqiang@corp.netease.com>
* Guannan Ren <gren@redhat.com>
* Gui Jianfeng <guijianfeng@cn.fujitsu.com>
* Guido Günther <agx@sigxcpu.org>
* Göran Uddeborg <goeran@uddeborg.se>
* Haibin Huang <haibin.huang@intel.com>
* Halil Pasic <pasic@linux.ibm.com>
* Han Cheng <hanc.fnst@cn.fujitsu.com>
* Han Han <hhan@redhat.com>
* Hao Liu <hliu@redhat.com>
* Hao Peng <peng.hao2@zte.com.cn>
* Hao Wang <wanghao232@huawei.com>
* Haonan Wang <hnwanga1@gmail.com>
* Harry Wei <harryxiyou@gmail.com>
* Harsh Prateek Bora <harsh@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Harshavardhana <harsha@gluster.com>
* Haruka Ohata <ohata.haruka@fujitsu.com>
* Heath Petersen <HeathPetersen@Kandre.com>
* Hela Basa <r45xveza@pm.me>
* Helmut Grohne <helmut@subdivi.de>
* Hendrik Schwartke <hendrik@os-t.de>
* Henning Schild <henning.schild@siemens.com>
* Henrik Persson E <henrik.e.persson@ericsson.com>
* Hero Phương <herophuong93@gmail.com>
* Hiroki Narukawa <hnarukaw@yahoo-corp.jp>
* Hongbin Lu <hongbin034@gmail.com>
* Hongwei Bi <hwbi2008@gmail.com>
* Hu Jianwei <jiahu@redhat.com>
* Hu Tao <hutao@cn.fujitsu.com>
* Huanle Han <hanxueluo@gmail.com>
* Huaqiang <huaqiang.wang@intel.com>
* Hyman Huang(黄勇) <huangy81@chinatelecom.cn>
* Ian Campbell <Ian.Campbell@citrix.com>
* Ian Campbell <ian.campbell@citrix.com>
* Ian Jackson <ian.jackson@eu.citrix.com>
* Ian Main <imain@redhat.com>
* Ian Wienand <iwienand@redhat.com>
* Igor Gnatenko <ignatenkobrain@fedoraproject.org>
* Ilias Stamatis <stamatis.iliass@gmail.com>
* Ilja Livenson <ilja.livenson@gmail.com>
* Ioanna Alifieraki <ioanna-maria.alifieraki@canonical.com>
* Ishmanpreet Kaur Khera <khera.ishman@gmail.com>
* Ivan Baldo <ibaldo@adinet.com.uy>
* Ivan Kardykov <kardykov@tabit.pro>
* Ivan Teterevkov <ivan.teterevkov@nutanix.com>
* J.B. Joret <jb@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Jaak Ristioja <jaak@ristioja.ee>
* Jakob Meng <jakobmeng@web.de>
* Jakub Kuczys <me@jacken.men>
* James Chapman <james.p.chapman@intel.com>
* James Cowgill <james410@cowgill.org.uk>
* James Shubin <james@shubin.ca>
* Jamie Strandboge <jamie@canonical.com>
* Jan Kiszka <jan.kiszka@siemens.com>
* Jan Kuparinen <copper_fin@hotmail.com>
* Jan Palus <atler@pld-linux.org>
* Jaroslav Safka <jaroslavx.safka@intel.com>
* Jaroslav Suchanek <jsuchane@redhat.com>
* Jason Andryuk <andryuk@aero.org>
* Jason Baron <jbaron@akamai.com>
* Jason Dillaman <dillaman@redhat.com>
* Jason J. Herne <jjherne@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Jason Miesionczek <jmiesionczek@datto.com>
* Jasper Lievisse Adriaanse <jasper@humppa.nl>
* Jasper Lievisse Adriaanse <jasper@openbsd.org>
* Jean-Baptiste Holcroft <jean-baptiste@holcroft.fr>
* Jean-Baptiste Rouault <jean-baptiste.rouault@diateam.net>
* Jean-Louis Dupond <jean-louis@dupond.be>
* Jean-Marc Liger <jean-marc.liger@parisdescartes.fr>
* Jens Petersen <petersen@redhat.com>
* Jeremy Fitzhardinge <jeremy@goop.org>
* Jesse Cook <code.crashenx@gmail.com>
* Jesse J. Cook <jesse.j.cook@member.fsf.org>
* Jia Zhou <zhou.jia2@zte.com.cn>
* Jianan Gao <jgao@redhat.com>
* Jiang Jiacheng <jiangjiacheng@huawei.com>
* Jiang Kun <jiang.kun2@zte.com.cn>
* Jianwei Hu <jiahu@redhat.com>
* Jidong Xia <xiajidong@cmss.chinamobile.com>
* Jie Wang <wangjie88@huawei.com>
* JieWang <wangjie88@huawei.com>
* Jim Fehlig <jfehlig@suse.com>
* Jim Meyering <meyering@redhat.com>
* Jim Paris <jim@jtan.com>
* Jin Yan <jinyan12@huawei.com>
* Jincheng Miao <jmiao@redhat.com>
* Jing Qi <jinqi@redhat.com>
* Jingjing Shao <jishao@redhat.com>
* Jinsheng Zhang <zhangjl02@inspur.com>
* Jiri Denemark <jdenemar@redhat.com>
* Joachim Falk <joachim.falk@gmx.de>
* Joao Martins <joao.m.martins@oracle.com>
* Joel SIMOES <joel.simoes@laposte.net>
* Johannes Holmberg <johannes.holmberg@dataductus.se>
* John Eckersberg <jeckersb@redhat.com>
* John Ferlan <jferlan@redhat.com>
* John Levon <john.levon@nutanix.com>
* John Levon <john.levon@sun.com>
* John Levon <levon@movementarian.org>
* John Morrissey <jwm@horde.net>
* John Williams <john.williams@petalogix.com>
* Jonas Eriksson <jonas.j.eriksson@ericsson.com>
* Jonathan Lebon <jlebon@redhat.com>
* Jonathan Toppins <jtoppins@cumulusnetworks.com>
* Jonathan Watt <jwatt@jwatt.org>
* Jonathon Jongsma <jjongsma@redhat.com>
* Josh Durgin <josh.durgin@inktank.com>
* Josh Stone <jistone@redhat.com>
* Jovanka Gulicoska <jovanka.gulicoska@gmail.com>
* Juan Hernandez <jhernand@redhat.com>
* Juerg Haefliger <juerg.haefliger@hp.com>
* Julien Humbert <julroy67@gmail.com>
* Julio Faracco <jcfaracco@gmail.com>
* Jun Koi <junkoi2004@gmail.com>
* Justin Clift <jclift@redhat.com>
* Justin Gatzen <justin.gatzen@gmail.com>
* Ján Tomko <jtomko@redhat.com>
* Jérémie Tarot <silopolis@gmail.com>
* K Shiva <shiva_kr@riseup.net>
* K Shiva Kiran <shiva_kr@riseup.net>
* KAMEZAWA Hiroyuki <kamezawa.hiroyu@jp.fujitsu.com>
* Kai Kang <kai.kang@windriver.com>
* Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
* Kashyap Chamarthy <kchamart@redhat.com>
* Katerina Koukiou <kkoukiou@redhat.com>
* Kay Schubert <kayegypt@web.de>
* Ken ICHIKAWA <ichikawa.ken@jp.fujitsu.com>
* Kenneth Nagin <NAGIN@il.ibm.com>
* Kevin Locke <kevin@kevinlocke.name>
* Kiarie Kahurani <davidkiarie4@gmail.com>
* Kim InSoo <simmon@nplob.com>
* Klaus Ethgen <Klaus@Ethgen.de>
* Koichi Murase <myoga.murase@gmail.com>
* Konrad Rzeszutek Wilk <konrad@kernel.org>
* Konstantin Neumoin <kneumoin@virtuozzo.com>
* Kothapally Madhu Pavan <kmp@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Kristina Hanicova <khanicov@redhat.com>
* Kyle DeFrancia <kdef@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Kyle Mestery <kmestery@cisco.com>
* Ladi Prosek <lprosek@redhat.com>
* Lai Jiangshan <laijs@cn.fujitsu.com>
* Laine Stump <laine@redhat.com>
* LanceLiu <liu.lance.89@gmail.com>
* Laszlo Ersek <lersek@redhat.com>
* Laurent Bigonville <bigon@bigon.be>
* Laurent Léonard <laurent@open-minds.org>
* Lee Yarwood <lyarwood@redhat.com>
* Lei Li <lilei@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Lei Yang <yanglei209@huawei.com>
* Lena Voytek <lena.voytek@canonical.com>
* Leno Hou <houqy@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Leonid Bloch <lb.workbox@gmail.com>
* Li Yang <liyang.fnst@cn.fujitsu.com>
* Li Zhang <zhlcindy@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Liang Yan <lyan@digitalocean.com>
* Liao Pingfang <liao.pingfang@zte.com.cn>
* Lily Zhu <lizhu@redhat.com>
* Lin Ma <lma@suse.com>
* Lin Ma <lma@suse.de>
* Lin Ma <morecache@gmail.com>
* Lin Yang <lin.a.yang@intel.com>
* Lincoln Myers <lincoln_myers@yahoo.com>
* Liu Dayu <liu.dayu@zte.com.cn>
* Liu Yiding <liuyd.fnst@fujitsu.com>
* Liuji (Jeremy) <jeremy.liu@huawei.com>
* Lorin Hochstein <lorin@isi.edu>
* Lu Ke <nicelukas@hotmail.com>
* Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>
* Ludek Janda <ljanda@redhat.com>
* Ludovic Beliveau <ludovic.beliveau@windriver.com>
* Luiz Capitulino <lcapitulino@redhat.com>
* Luke Yue <lukedyue@gmail.com>
* Luyao Huang <lhuang@redhat.com>
* Luyao Zhong <luyao.zhong@intel.com>
* Lénaïc Huard <lenaic@lhuard.fr.eu.org>
* MATSUDA Daiki <matsudadik@intellilink.co.jp>
* MORITA Kazutaka <morita.kazutaka@lab.ntt.co.jp>
* Maciej Wolny <maciej.wolny@codethink.co.uk>
* Malina Salina <malina.salina@protonmail.com>
* Malte Linke <malte.linke@outlook.com>
* Manuel VIVES <manuel.vives@diateam.net>
* Mao Zhongyi <maozhongyi@cmss.chinamobile.com>
* Marc Hartmayer <mhartmay@linux.ibm.com>
* Marc Hartmayer <mhartmay@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Marc-André Lureau <marcandre.lureau@redhat.com>
* Marcelo Cerri <mhcerri@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Marco Bozzolan <bozzolan@gmail.com>
* Marcos Paulo de Souza <marcos.souza.org@gmail.com>
* Marek Marczykowski <marmarek@invisiblethingslab.com>
* Marek Marczykowski-Górecki <marmarek@invisiblethingslab.com>
* Marian Neagul <marian@info.uvt.ro>
* Mark Asselstine <mark.asselstine@windriver.com>
* Mark McLoughlin <markmc@redhat.com>
* Mark Mielke <mark.mielke@gmail.com>
* Mark Wu <dwu@redhat.com>
* Marko Myllynen <myllynen@redhat.com>
* Markus Groß <gross@univention.de>
* Markus Schade <markus.schade@hetzner.com>
* Marti Raudsepp <marti@juffo.org>
* Martin Kletzander <mkletzan@redhat.com>
* Martin Pietsch <martin.pietsch@tu-dresden.de>
* Martin Pitt <mpitt@debian.org>
* Martin Wilck <mwilck@suse.de>
* Masayoshi Mizuma <m.mizuma@jp.fujitsu.com>
* Matej Cepl <mcepl@cepl.eu>
* Matt Coleman <matt@datto.com>
* Matthew Booth <mbooth@redhat.com>
* Matthew Rosato <mjrosato@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Matthias Bolte <matthias.bolte@googlemail.com>
* Matthias Dahl <mdvirt@designassembly.de>
* Matthias Gatto <matthias.gatto@outscale.com>
* Matthieu Coudron <mattator@gmail.com>
* Mattias Bolte <matthias.bolte@googlemail.com>
* Matwey V. Kornilov <matwey.kornilov@gmail.com>
* Mauro Matteo Cascella <mcascell@redhat.com>
* Mauro S. M. Rodrigues <maurosr@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Max Goodhart <c@chromakode.com>
* Maxim Kozin <kolomaxes@gmail.com>
* Maxim Nestratov <mnestratov@virtuozzo.com>
* Maxim Perevedentsev <mperevedentsev@virtuozzo.com>
* Maxime Leroy <maxime.leroy@6wind.com>
* Maximilian Wilhelm <max@rfc2324.org>
* Maxiwell S. Garcia <maxiwell@linux.ibm.com>
* Maya Rashish <coypu@sdf.org>
* Mehdi Abaakouk <sileht@redhat.com>
* Meina Li <meili@redhat.com>
* Menno Lageman <menno.lageman@oracle.com>
* Michael Ablassmeier <abi@grinser.de>
* Michael Avdienko <whitearchey@gmail.com>
* Michael Chapman <mike@very.puzzling.org>
* Michael Ellerman <michael@ellerman.id.au>
* Michael R. Hines <mrhines@us.ibm.com>
* Michael Santos <michael.santos@gmail.com>
* Michael Weiser <michael.weiser@gmx.de>
* Michael Wood <esiotrot@gmail.com>
* Michal Dubiel <md@semihalf.com>
* Michal Koutný <mkoutny@suse.com>
* Michal Novotny <minovotn@redhat.com>
* Michal Prívozník <mprivozn@redhat.com>
* Michał Smyk <fedora@smyk.it>
* Michał Łomnicki <michal.lomnicki@gmail.com>
* Michel Normand <normand@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Michele Paolino <m.paolino@virtualopensystems.com>
* Miguel Ángel Arruga Vivas <rosen644835@gmail.com>
* Mike Latimer <mlatimer@suse.com>
* Mike Perez <thingee@gmail.com>
* Mike Pontillo <mpontillo@digitalocean.com>
* Mikhail Feoktistov <mfeoktistov@parallels.com>
* Mikhail Feoktistov <mfeoktistov@virtuozzo.com>
* Milo Casagrande <milo@milo.name>
* Milos Vyletel <milos.vyletel@sde.cz>
* Miloslav Trmač <mitr@redhat.com>
* Minoru Usui <usui@mxm.nes.nec.co.jp>
* Mo yuxiang <moyuxiang@huawei.com>
* Mooli Tayer <mtayer@redhat.com>
* Moshe Levi <moshele@mellanox.com>
* Moshe Levi <moshele@nvidia.com>
* Moteen Shah <moteenshah.02@gmail.com>
* Muha Aliss <muhaaliss@gmail.com>
* Nan Zhang <nzhang@redhat.com>
* Naoya Horiguchi <n-horiguchi@ah.jp.nec.com>
* Natanael Copa <ncopa@alpinelinux.org>
* Nathan <nathan95@live.it>
* Neal Gompa <ngompa13@gmail.com>
* Nehal J Wani <nehaljw.kkd1@gmail.com>
* Neil Wilson <neil@aldur.co.uk>
* Nguyen Anh Quynh <aquynh@gmail.com>
* Nick Chevsky <nchevsky@gmail.com>
* Nick Shyrokovskiy <nshyrokovskiy@gmail.com>
* Nickys Music Group <nickys.music.group@gmail.com>
* Nico Pache <npache@redhat.com>
* Nicolas Brignone <nmbrignone@gmail.com>
* Nicolas Lécureuil <neoclust@mageia.org>
* Niels de Vos <ndevos@redhat.com>
* Nikolai Barybin <nikolai.barybin@virtuozzo.com>
* Nikolay Shirokovskiy <nshirokovskiy@openvz.org>
* Nikolay Shirokovskiy <nshirokovskiy@virtuozzo.com>
* Nikos Mavrogiannopoulos <nmav@redhat.com>
* Nikunj A. Dadhania <nikunj@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Nishank Trivedi <nistrive@cisco.com>
* Nishith Shah <nishithshah.2211@gmail.com>
* Niteesh Dubey <niteesh@linux.ibm.com>
* Nitesh Konkar <niteshkonkar.libvirt@gmail.com>
* Nobuhiro MIKI <nmiki@yahoo-corp.jp>
* Noella Ashu <ashu.noella207@gmail.com>
* Ohad Levy <ohadlevy@gmail.com>
* Olaf Hering <olaf@aepfle.de>
* Oleg Strikov <oleg.strikov@canonical.com>
* Oleg Vasilev <oleg.vasilev@virtuozzo.com>
* Oleksandr Tyshchenko <oleksandr_tyshchenko@epam.com>
* Olesya Gerasimenko <gammaray@basealt.ru>
* Olga Krishtal <okrishtal@virtuozzo.com>
* Olivia Yin <Hong-Hua.Yin@freescale.com>
* Olivia Yin <hong-hua.yin@freescale.com>
* Olivier Fourdan <ofourdan@redhat.com>
* Or Ozeri <oro@il.ibm.com>
* Orion Poplawski <orion@nwra.com>
* Osier Yang <jyang@redhat.com>
* Oskari Saarenmaa <os@ohmu.fi>
* Ossi Herrala <oherrala@gmail.com>
* Pany <geekpany@gmail.com>
* Paolo Bonzini <pbonzini@redhat.com>
* Paolo Smiraglia <paolo.smiraglia@gmail.com>
* Patrice LACHANCE <patlachance@gmail.com>
* Patrick Dignan <pat_dignan@dell.com>
* Patrick Magauran <patmagauran.j@gmail.com>
* Paul Eggert <eggert@cs.ucla.edu>
* Paulo de Rezende Pinatti <ppinatti@linux.ibm.com>
* Pavel Boldin <pboldin@mirantis.com>
* Pavel Borecki <pavel.borecki@gmail.com>
* Pavel Fedin <p.fedin@samsung.com>
* Pavel Glushchak <pglushchak@virtuozzo.com>
* Pavel Hrdina <phrdina@redhat.com>
* Pavel Mores <pmores@redhat.com>
* Pavel Raiskup <praiskup@redhat.com>
* Pavel Timofeev <timp87@gmail.com>
* Paweł Krześniak <pawel.krzesniak@gmail.com>
* Peng Liang <liangpeng10@huawei.com>
* Peng Liang <tcx4c70@gmail.com>
* Peng Zhou <ailvpeng25@gmail.com>
* Peter Chubb <Peter.Chubb@data61.csiro.au>
* Peter Feiner <peter@gridcentric.ca>
* Peter Kieser <peter@kieser.ca>
* Peter Krempa <pkrempa@redhat.com>
* Peter Robinson <pbrobinson@gmail.com>
* Phil Petty <phpetty@cisco.com>
* Philipp Hahn <hahn@univention.de>
* Pierre LIBEAU <pierre.libeau@corp.ovh.com>
* Pieter Hollants <pieter@hollants.com>
* Pino Toscano <ptoscano@redhat.com>
* Pino Toscano <toscano.pino@tiscali.it>
* Piotr Drąg <piotrdrag@gmail.com>
* Pradipta Kr. Banerjee <bpradip@in.ibm.com>
* Pradipta Kr. Banerjee <pradipta.banerjee@gmail.com>
* Prafull <talep158@gmail.com>
* Prafullkumar Tale <talep158@gmail.com>
* Pranavkumar Sawargaonkar <pranavkumar@linaro.org>
* Prasanna Kumar Kalever <prasanna.kalever@redhat.com>
* Prathamesh Chavan <pc44800@gmail.com>
* Praveen K Paladugu <prapal@linux.microsoft.com>
* Prerna Saxena <prerna@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Pritesh Kothari <pritesh.kothari@sun.com>
* Qiao Nuohan <qiaonuohan@cn.fujitsu.com>
* Qiaowei Ren <qiaowei.ren@intel.com>
* Radoslaw Biernacki <radoslaw.biernacki@linaro.org>
* Radostin Stoyanov <rstoyanov1@gmail.com>
* Radu Caragea <dmns_serp@yahoo.com>
* Rafael Fonseca <r4f4rfs@gmail.com>
* Rainer Müller <raimue@codingfarm.de>
* Ramon Medeiros <ramonn@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Reinier Schoof <reinier@transip.nl>
* Remus-Gabriel Chelu <remusgabriel.chelu@disroot.org>
* Richa Marwaha <rmarwah@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Richard Laager <rlaager@wiktel.com>
* Richard W.M. Jones <rjones@redhat.com>
* Richard Weinberger <richard@nod.at>
* Rick Harris <rconradharris@gmail.com>
* Ricky Tigg <ricky.tigg@gmail.com>
* Rikard Falkeborn <rikard.falkeborn@gmail.com>
* Riku Voipio <riku.voipio@linaro.org>
* Robin Lee <cheeselee@fedoraproject.org>
* Rohit Kumar <rohit.kumar3@nutanix.com>
* Roland Schulz <schullzroll@gmail.com>
* Rolf Eike Beer <eike@sf-mail.de>
* Roman Bogorodskiy <bogorodskiy@gmail.com>
* Roman Bolshakov <r.bolshakov@yadro.com>
* Roman Mohr <rmohr@redhat.com>
* Rommer <rommer@active.by>
* Ron Yorston <rmy@tigress.co.uk>
* Roopa Prabhu <roprabhu@cisco.com>
* Royce Lv <lvroyce@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Ruben Kerkhof <ruben@rubenkerkhof.com>
* Rudy Zhang <rudyflyzhang@gmail.com>
* Rufo Dogav <rufo@rufoa.com>
* Ryan Gahagan <rgahagan@cs.utexas.edu>
* Ryan Harper <ryanh@us.ibm.com>
* Ryan Moeller <ryan@ixsystems.com>
* Ryan Schmidt <git@ryandesign.com>
* Ryan Woodsmall <rwoodsmall@gmail.com>
* Ryota Ozaki <ozaki.ryota@gmail.com>
* Sage Weil <sage@newdream.net>
* Sahid Orentino Ferdjaoui <sahid.ferdjaoui@canonical.com>
* Sahid Orentino Ferdjaoui <sahid.ferdjaoui@cloudwatt.com>
* Sam Bobroff <sam.bobroff@au1.ibm.com>
* Sam Hartman <hartmans@debian.org>
* Sascha Peilicke <saschpe@suse.de>
* Sascha Silbe <silbe@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Satoru Moriya <satoru.moriya@hds.com>
* Satoru SATOH <satoru.satoh@gmail.com>
* Scott Davis <scott.davis@starlab.io>
* Scott Garfinkle <scottgar@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Scott Garfinkle <seg@us.ibm.com>
* Scott Moser <smoser@ubuntu.com>
* Scott Shambarger <scott-libvirt@shambarger.net>
* Scott Sullivan <ssullivan@liquidweb.com>
* Sebastian Mitterle <smitterl@redhat.com>
* Sebastian Wiedenroth <wiedi@frubar.net>
* Seeteena Thoufeek <s1seetee@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* SeongHyun Jo <caelus9536@gmail.com>
* Serge E. Hallyn <serge.hallyn@canonical.com>
* Serge Hallyn <serge.hallyn@ubuntu.com>
* Sergey A <sw@atrus.ru>
* Sergey Bronnikov <sergeyb@openvz.org>
* Sergey Fionov <fionov@gmail.com>
* Shahar Klein <shaharklein@yahoo.com>
* Shaleen Bathla <shaleen.bathla@oracle.com>
* Shalini Chellathurai Saroja <shalini@linux.ibm.com>
* Shalini Chellathurai Saroja <shalini@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Shanzhi Yu <shyu@redhat.com>
* ShaoHe Feng <shaohe.feng@intel.com>
* Shaohe Feng <shaohe.feng@intel.com>
* Shaojun Yang <yangshaojun@phytium.com.cn>
* Sharadha Prabhakar <sharadha.prabhakar@citrix.com>
* Shi Lei <shi_lei@massclouds.com>
* Shichangkuo <shi.changkuo@h3c.com>
* Shivangi Dhir <shivangi.dhir.02@gmail.com>
* Shivaprasad G Bhat <sbhat@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Shivaprasad G Bhat <shivaprasadbhat@gmail.com>
* Shotaro Gotanda <g.sho1500@gmail.com>
* Shradha Shah <sshah@solarflare.com>
* Shuang He <shuang.he@zstack.io>
* Silvan Kaiser <silvan@quobyte.com>
* Simon Arlott <bugzilla.redhat.simon@arlott.org>
* Simon Chopin <chopin.simon@gmail.com>
* Simon Kobyda <skobyda@redhat.com>
* Simon McVittie <smcv@debian.org>
* Simon Rowe <simon.rowe@nutanix.com>
* Simone Gotti <simone.gotti@gmail.com>
* Soren Hansen <soren@linux2go.dk>
* Spencer Shimko <sshimko@tresys.com>
* Sri Ramanujam <sramanujam@datto.com>
* Srivatsa S. Bhat <srivatsa.bhat@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Stef Walter <stefw@gnome.org>
* Stefan Bader <stefan.bader@canonical.com>
* Stefan Berger <stefanb@linux.ibm.com>
* Stefan Berger <stefanb@us.ibm.com>
* Stefan Hajnoczi <stefanha@gmail.com>
* Stefan Hajnoczi <stefanha@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Stefan Hajnoczi <stefanha@redhat.com>
* Stefan Schallenberg <infos@nafets.de>
* Stefan Seyfried <seife@b1-systems.de>
* Stefan Zimmermann <stzi@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Stefano Brivio <sbrivio@redhat.com>
* Steve Hodgson <shodgson@solarflare.com>
* Steve Yarmie <steve.yarmie@gmail.com>
* Steven McDonald <steven.mcdonald@anchor.net.au>
* Sukadev Bhattiprolu <sukadev@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Sukrit Bhatnagar <skrtbhtngr@gmail.com>
* Supriya Kannery <supriyak@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Suyang Chen <dawson0xff@gmail.com>
* Syed Humaid <syedhumaidbinharoon@gmail.com>
* Szymon Scholz <szymonscholz@gmail.com>
* Sławek Kapłoński <slawek@kaplonski.pl>
* Taisuke Yamada <tai@rakugaki.org>
* Taizo ITO <taizo.ito@hde.co.jp>
* Taku Izumi <izumi.taku@jp.fujitsu.com>
* Tal Kain <tal.kain@ravellosystems.com>
* Tang Chen <tangchen@cn.fujitsu.com>
* Taowei <uaedante@gmail.com>
* Taowei Luo <uaedante@gmail.com>
* Temuri Doghonadze <temuri.doghonadze@gmail.com>
* Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo <cascardo@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Thang Pham <thang.pham@us.ibm.com>
* Thibault VINCENT <thibault.vincent@smartjog.com>
* Thierry Parmentelat <thierry.parmentelat@inria.fr>
* Thomas Huth <thuth@redhat.com>
* Thomas Treutner <thomas@scripty.at>
* Thomas Woerner <twoerner@redhat.com>
* Thorsten Behrens <tbehrens@suse.com>
* Tiago M. Vieira <tmv@redhat.com>
* Tim Shearer <TShearer@adva.com>
* Tim Wiederhake <twiederh@redhat.com>
* Tiziano Mueller <dev-zero@gentoo.org>
* Tobin Feldman-Fitzthum <tobin@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Tom Vijlbrief <tom.vijlbrief@xs4all.nl>
* Tom Wieczorek <tom@bibbu.net>
* Tomas Meszaros <exo@tty.sk>
* Tomasz Flendrich <t.flendrich@gmail.com>
* Tomoki Sekiyama <tomoki.sekiyama@hds.com>
* Tomáš Golembiovský <tgolembi@redhat.com>
* Tomáš Janoušek <tomi@nomi.cz>
* Tomáš Ryšavý <tom.rysavy.0@gmail.com>
* Tony Krowiak <aekrowia@us.ibm.com>
* Tony Krowiak <akrowiak@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Tuguoyi <tu.guoyi@h3c.com>
* Tyler Coumbes <coumbes@gmail.com>
* Vasiliy Tolstov <v.tolstov@selfip.ru>
* Vasiliy Ulyanov <vulyanov@suse.de>
* Victor Toso <victortoso@redhat.com>
* Viktor Mihajlovski <mihajlov@linux.ibm.com>
* Viktor Mihajlovski <mihajlov@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Ville Skyttä <ville.skytta@iki.fi>
* Vinayak Kale <vkale@nvidia.com>
* Vincent Bernat <vincent@bernat.im>
* Vineeth Pillai <viremana@linux.microsoft.com>
* Vitaly Kuznetsov <vkuznets@redhat.com>
* Vitor de Lima <vitor.lima@eldorado.org.br>
* Vladislav Bogdanov <bubble@hoster-ok.com>
* Václav Pavlín <vpavlin@redhat.com>
* Wang Huaqiang <huaqiang.wang@intel.com>
* Wang King <king.wang@huawei.com>
* Wang Rui <moon.wangrui@huawei.com>
* Wang Xin <wangxinxin.wang@huawei.com>
* Wang Yechao <wang.yechao255@zte.com.cn>
* Wang Yufei (James) <james.wangyufei@huawei.com>
* Wangjing (King, Euler) <king.wang@huawei.com>
* Wangrui (K) <moon.wangrui@huawei.com>
* Weblate <noreply@weblate.org>
* Wei Huang <wei@redhat.com>
* Wei Jiangang <weijg.fnst@cn.fujitsu.com>
* Wei Liu <wei.liu2@citrix.com>
* Wei Liu <wei.liu@kernel.org>
* Weilun Zhu <zhuweilun@huawei.com>
* Weiwei Li <nuonuoli@tencent.com>
* Wen Congyang <wency@cn.fujitsu.com>
* Wido den Hollander <wido@widodh.nl>
* Wieland Hoffmann <themineo@googlemail.com>
* William Douglas <william.douglas@intel.com>
* William Grant <wgrant@ubuntu.com>
* William Jon McCann <william.jon.mccann@gmail.com>
* Wim ten Have <wim.ten.have@oracle.com>
* Wojciech Macek <wma@semihalf.com>
* Wolfgang Mauerer <wolfgang.mauerer@siemens.com>
* Wout Mertens <Wout.Mertens@gmail.com>
* Wout Mertens <wout.mertens@gmail.com>
* Wu Zongyong <cordius.wu@huawei.com>
* Xian Han Yu <xhyubj@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Xiao Feng Ren <renxiaof@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Xing Lin <xinglin@cs.utah.edu>
* Xu Chao <xu.chao6@zte.com.cn>
* Xu He Jie <xuhj@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
* Xu Yandong <xuyandong2@huawei.com>
* Xuesong Zhang <xuzhang@redhat.com>
* Yalan Zhang <yalzhang@redhat.com>
* Yalei Li <274268859@qq.com>
* Yan Fu <yafu@redhat.com>
* Yan Wang <wangyan122@huawei.com>
* Yanbing Du <ydu@redhat.com>
* Yanbing Du <ydu@ydu-0.nay.redhat.com>
* Yang Fei <yangfei85@huawei.com>
* Yang Yulin <yylteam@icloud.com>
* Yaniv Kaul <ykaul@redhat.com>
* Yanqiu Zhang <yanqzhan@redhat.com>
* Yaroslav Kargin <ykargin@virtuozzo.com>
* Yasuhiko Kamata <belphegor@belbel.or.jp>
* Yi Li <yili@winhong.com>
* Yi Min Zhao <zyimin@linux.ibm.com>
* Yi Wang <wang.yi59@zte.com.cn>
* Yingle Hou <houyingle@hygon.cn>
* Yogesh Tillu <tillu.yogesh@gmail.com>
* Yohan BELLEGUIC <yohan.belleguic@diateam.net>
* Your Name <you@example.com>
* Yudai Yamagish <yummy@sfc.wide.ad.jp>
* Yue wenyuan <yuewenyuan@huawei.com>
* Yufang Zhang <yufang521247@gmail.com>
* Yufang Zhang <yuzhang@redhat.com>
* Yuji NISHIDA <nishidy@nict.go.jp>
* Yuri Chornoivan <yurchor@ukr.net>
* Yuri Myasoedov <ymyasoedov@yandex.ru>
* Yuri Pudgorodskiy <yur@virtuozzo.com>
* Yuto KAWAMURA(kawamuray) <kawamuray.dadada@gmail.com>
* Yuval Shaia <yuval.shaia@oracle.com>
* Zbigniew Jędrzejewski-Szmek <zbyszek@in.waw.pl>
* Zdenek Styblik <stybla@turnovfree.net>
* Zeeshan Ali (Khattak) <zeeshanak@gnome.org>
* Zeng Junliang <zengjunliang@huawei.com>
* Zhang Bo <oscar.zhangbo@huawei.com>
* Zhang Xiaohe <zhangxh@cn.fujitsu.com>
* Zhangzijian <zhang.zijian@h3c.com>
* Zheng Chuan <zhengchuan@huawei.com>
* Zhenguo Yao <yaozhenguo1@gmail.com>
* Zhenyu Ye <yezhenyu2@huawei.com>
* Zhenyu Zhang <zhenyzha@redhat.com>
* Zhenyu Zheng <zheng.zhenyu@outlook.com>
* Zhenzhong Duan <zhenzhong.duan@intel.com>
* ZhiPeng Lu <lu.zhipeng@zte.com.cn>
* ZhiPeng Lu <luzhipeng@uniudc.com>
* Zhimin Feng <fengzhimin1@huawei.com>
* Zhou Yimin <zhouyimin@huawei.com>
* Zhou yimin <zhouyimin@huawei.com>
* Zhuang Yanying <ann.zhuangyanying@huawei.com>
* antonios-f <anton.fadeev@red-soft.ru>
* caoxinhua <caoxinhua@huawei.com>
* dann frazier <dann.frazier@canonical.com>
* dinglimin <dinglimin@cmss.chinamobile.com>
* eater <=@eater.me>
* gaohaifeng <gaohaifeng.gao@huawei.com>
* gongwei <gongwei@smartx.com>
* grimst <grimaitres@gmail.com>
* hejia hejia <jiakernel@gmail.com>
* hexin <hexin15@baidu.com>
* ik.nitk <ik.nitk@gmail.com>
* intrigeri <intrigeri@boum.org>
* intrigeri <intrigeri@debian.org>
* james robson <jrobson@websense.com>
* jason lee <ppark5237@gmail.com>
* jiangjiacheng <jiangjiacheng@huawei.com>
* lawrancejing <lawrancejing@gmail.com>
* liguang <lig.fnst@cn.fujitsu.com>
* liqiang <liqiang64@huawei.com>
* lu zhipeng <luzhipeng@cestc.cn>
* luzhipeng <luzhipeng@cestc.cn>
* minglei.liu <minglei.liu@smartx.com>
* ning.bo <ning.bo9@zte.com.cn>
* ramyelkest <ramyelkest@gmail.com>
* ryan woodsmall <rwoodsmall@gmail.com>
* sannyshao <jishao@redhat.com>
* shenjiatong <yshxxsjt715@gmail.com>
* simmon <simmon@nplob.com>
* ttxine <ttxinee@outlook.com>
* tuqiang <tu.qiang35@zte.com.cn>
* w00251574 <wangjie88@huawei.com>
* wangjian <wangjian161@huawei.com>
* weiwei li <weiweili821@gmail.com>
* xinhua.Cao <caoxinhua@huawei.com>
* xuzhang <xuzhang@redhat.com>
* yangdongsheng <yangds.fnst@cn.fujitsu.com>
* yuelongguang <yuelongguang@le.com>
* zhanchun li <lzc777@126.com>
* zhang bo <oscar.zhangbo@huawei.com>
* zhangjl02 <zhangjl02@inspur.com>
* zhanglei <zhanglei@smartx.com>
* zhenwei pi <pizhenwei@bytedance.com>
* zuoboqun <zuoboqun@baidu.com>
* Дамјан Георгиевски <gdamjan@gmail.com>
* Марк Коренберг <socketpair@gmail.com>
* 김인수 <simmon@nplob.com>


The libvirt logo was designed by Diana Fong
