================================================================================

dpkg-1.21.21

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

LICENSES 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

License-of-GNU-Licenses
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FSFULLR

This file is free software; the Free Software Foundation
gives unlimited permission to copy and/or distribute it,
with or without modifications, as long as this notice is preserved.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Public-domain

Public domain

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0-only

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. This General Public License applies to most
of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose
authors commit to using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is
covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must show them
these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program will individually
obtain patent licenses, in effect making the program proprietary. To prevent
this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's free
use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice
placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such program or
work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or any
derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
translated into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without
limitation in the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by
this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running the Program is not
restricted, and the output from the Program is covered only if its contents
constitute a work based on the Program (independent of having been made by
running the Program). Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code as
you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately
publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty;
keep intact all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at
your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it, thus
forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such modifications
or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of
these conditions:

     a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

     b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole or
in part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be
licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this
License.

     c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the most
ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License. (Exception:
if the Program itself is interactive but does not normally print such an
announcement, your work based on the Program is not required to print an
announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with the
Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under Section
2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above
provided that you also do one of the following:

     a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

     b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of physically
performing source distribution, a complete machine-readable copy of the
corresponding source code, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

     c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to
distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form with such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation
of the executable. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed
need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or
binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself
accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code
from the same place counts as distribution of the source code, even though third
parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Program
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or any
work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Program or works based on it.

6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third
parties to this License.

7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent infringement
or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions are imposed
on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that contradict the
conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this
License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your
obligations under this License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a
consequence you may not distribute the Program at all. For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by all those
who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only way you
could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain entirely from
distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and the
section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system, which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in
spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems
or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program specifies
a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version",
you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version
or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the
Program does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any
version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

NO WARRANTY

11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE
PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

     one line to give the program's name and an idea of what it does. Copyright
(C) yyyy name of author

     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA. Also add information
on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

     Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author Gnomovision comes
with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software,
and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c'
for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

     Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY AUTHORS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0-or-later

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. This General Public License applies to most
of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose
authors commit to using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is
covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must show them
these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program will individually
obtain patent licenses, in effect making the program proprietary. To prevent
this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's free
use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

   0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice
placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such program or
work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or any
derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
translated into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without
limitation in the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running the Program is
not restricted, and the output from the Program is covered only if its contents
constitute a work based on the Program (independent of having been made by
running the Program). Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code
as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program
a copy of this License along with the Program.

   You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also
meet all of these conditions:

      a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

      b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole
or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be
licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this
License.

      c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the most
ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License. (Exception:
if the Program itself is interactive but does not normally print such an
announcement, your work based on the Program is not required to print an
announcement.)

   These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

   Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Program.

   In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with
the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

   3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under
Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above provided that you also do one of the following:

      a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

      b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of physically
performing source distribution, a complete machine-readable copy of the
corresponding source code, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

      c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to
distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form with such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

   The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation
of the executable. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed
need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or
binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself
accompanies the executable.

   If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to
copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source
code from the same place counts as distribution of the source code, even though
third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

   4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Program
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or any
work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Program or works based on it.

   6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third
parties to this License.

   7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Program at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Program by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Program.

   If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and the
section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

   It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents
or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system, which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

   This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

   8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

   9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar
in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new
problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Program does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose
any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM
"AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and an idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) <yyyy> <name of author>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin
Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author Gnomovision comes with
ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software, and
you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c' for
details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

< signature of Ty Coon > , 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright notices

© copyright 1995 Ian Jackson.
© Luís Lopes <andrelop@ig.com.br>, 2002.
© Luís Lopes <andrelop@debian.org>, 2004.
Copyrights: Kov Chai <tchaikov@sjtu.edu.cn>, 2005, 2006. Hiweed Leng
<hiweed@163.com>, 2004. Carlos Z.F. Liu <carlosliu@users.sourceforge.net>, 2004.
Boyuan Yang <byang@debian.org>, 2023.
Copyrights: Hiweed Leng <hiweed@163.com>, 2004. Kov Chai <tchaikov@gmail.com>,
2005,2006,2007 Ming Hua <minghua@rice.edu>, 2006. Carlos Z.F. Liu
<carlosliu@users.sourceforge.net>, 2004,2006. Anthony Wong
<ypwong@debian.org.hk>, 2007. Deng Xiyue <manphiz-
guest@users.alioth.debian.org>, 2007, 2008, 2009. Aron Xu
<happyaron.xu@gmail.com>, 2009, 2010. Zhou Mo <cdluminate@gmail.com>, 2014,
2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019. Boyuan Yang <byang@debian.org>, 2017-2023.
Copyright © Ian Jackson <ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright © Colin Watson <cjwatson@debian.org>
Copyright © 207, 2022 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2023 Dpkg Developers. Hartmut Koptein <koptein@debian.org>, Apr
2000. Erich Schubert <debian@vitavonni.de>, March 2001. Michael Piefel
<piefel@debian.org>, 2001-2005. Florian Ernst <florian@uni-hd.de>, 2004. Sven
Joachim <svenjoac@gmx.de>, 2006-2023. Holger Wansing <linux@wansing-online.de>,
2010.
Copyright © 2022 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2021-2022 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2021 Sebastian Andrzej Siewior <sebastian@breakpoint.cc>
Copyright © 2021 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2020-2022 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2020-2021 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2020 Helmut Grohne <helmut@subdivi.de>
Copyright © 2020 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2018 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2017, 2022 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2017 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2016-2022 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2016-2017 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2016 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2016 Dpkg Developers Andre Luis Lopes <andrelop@debian.org>, 2008.
Copyright © 2015-2017 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2015-2016 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2015 Jérémy Bobbio <lunar@debian.org>
Copyright © 2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2014-2015 Jérémy Bobbio <lunar@debian.org>
Copyright © 2014-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2014, 2017-2018, 2020-2021 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2014 Niko Tyni <ntyni@debian.org>
Copyright © 2014 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2014 Bill Allombert <ballombe@debian.org>
Copyright © 2013-2016 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2013-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2013 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2012-2022 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2012-2017 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2012-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2012-2014 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2012-2013 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2012 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2011-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2011-2014 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2011-2013, 2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2011-2012 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2011, 2018 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2011, 2014 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2011, 2013-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2011, 2013, 2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2011 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2011 Matt Kraai <kraai@ftbfs.org>
Copyright © 2011 Linaro Limited
Copyright © 2011 Kees Cook <kees@debian.org>
Copyright © 2011 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2010-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2010-2014 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2010-2012 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2010-2012 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2010-2011, 2014-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2010-2011 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2010,2012 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2010, 2014, 2016 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2010, 2013-2016 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2010, 2012-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2010, 2012, 2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2010 Russ Allbery <rra@debian.org>
Copyright © 2010 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2010 Oxan van Leeuwen <oxan@oxanvanleeuwen.nl>
Copyright © 2010 Joey Hess <joeyh@debian.org>
Copyright © 2010 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2010 Charles Plessy <plessy@debian.org>
Copyright © 2010 Canonical Ltd. written by Martin Pitt
<martin.pitt@canonical.com>
Copyright © 2009-2019 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009-2014, 2017 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009-2014 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009-2012, 2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009-2012 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009-2012 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009-2011, 2014-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009-2011, 2013-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009-2011, 2013, 2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009-2011 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009-2011 Kees Cook <kees@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009-2011 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009-2010,2012-2014 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009-2010 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009-2010 Modestas Vainius <modestas@vainius.eu>
Copyright © 2009-2010 Modestas Vainius <modax@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009-2010 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009,2012 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009,2011-2012 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009, 2014 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009, 2013-2015, 2018, 2020 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009, 2013, 2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009, 2012-2019, 2021 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009, 2012-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009, 2011-2017 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009, 2010 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009 Yuri Vasilevski <yvasilev@gentoo.org>
Copyright © 2009 Romain Francoise <rfrancoise@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2009 Canonical Ltd.
Copyright © 2008-2022 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2019 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2018 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2016, 2018 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2016 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2014 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2013, 2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2013 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2012, 2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2012 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2012 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2011, 2013-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2011 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2011 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2010, 2012-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2010 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2010 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2009,2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2009,2012-2014 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2009, 2012-2017, 2022 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2009, 2012-2014 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008-2009 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008, 2013-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008, 2012-2017 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008, 2012-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008, 2010, 2012-2014 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008, 2010 Russ Allbery <rra@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008, 2010 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008, 2009 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008 Zack Weinberg <zackw@panix.com>
Copyright © 2008 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008 Pierre Habouzit <madcoder@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008 Joey Hess <joeyh@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008 James Westby <jw+debian@jameswestby.net>
Copyright © 2008 Ian Jackson <ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright © 2008 Frank Lichtenheld <djpig@debian.org>
Copyright © 2008 Canonical, Ltd. written by Colin Watson <cjwatson@ubuntu.com>
Copyright © 2007-2023 Software in the Public Interest. Peter Krefting
<peter@softwolves.pp.se>, 2007-2023.
Copyright © 2007-2022 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007-2014 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007-2013, 2015-2018 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007-2013, 2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007-2013 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007-2012 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007-2011, 2013-2017 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007-2011, 2013-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007-2011 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007-2011 Raphael Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007-2010 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007-2009,2012-2015,2017-2018 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007-2009,2012-2013 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007-2009 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007-2008, 2012-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007-2008 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007-2008 Ian Jackson <ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright © 2007-2008 Frank Lichtenheld <djpig@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007-2008 Canonical, Ltd.
Copyright © 2007,2012 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007,2010 Joey Hess <joeyh@debian.org>.
Copyright © 2007, 2016 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007, 2011-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007, 2009, 2011-2014 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007, 2009, 2011 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007, 2008 Tollef Fog Heen <tfheen@err.no>
Copyright © 2007 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007 Raphaël Hertzog
Copyright © 2007 Nicolas François <nicolas.francois@centraliens.net>
Copyright © 2007 Joey Hess <joeyh@debian.org>.
Copyright © 2007 Frank Lichtenheld <djpig@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007 Frank Lichtenheld
Copyright © 2007 Don Armstrong <don@donarmstrong.com>.
Copyright © 2007 Colin Watson <cjwatson@debian.org>.
Copyright © 2007 Canonical, Ltd. written by Ian Jackson
<ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright © 2007 Canonical Ltd. Written by Ian Jackson
<ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright © 2007 Canonical Ltd written by Ian Jackson
<ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright © 2007 Canonical Ltd Written by Ian Jackson
<ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright © 2006-2023 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2019 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2017 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2016 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2015, 2017-2018 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2014 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2013, 2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2012 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2010,2012-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2010, 2012-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2009,2012-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2009,2012 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2009, 2012-2020, 2022 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2009, 2011-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2009 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2008,2010,2012-2014 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2008 Frank Lichtenheld <djpig@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2007 Frank Lichtenheld <djpig@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006-2007 Dpkg Developers. Kinley Tshering
<gasepkuenden2k3@hotmail.com>, 2006. Tshewang Norbu <bumthap2006@hotmail.com>,
2006-2007.
Copyright © 2006,2008-2014 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006, 2012-2013, 2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006, 2011-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006, 2010 Software in the Public Interest, Inc. Jordi Mallach
<jordi@debian.org>, 2006, 2010. Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>, 2010-2023.
Copyright © 2006, 2009-2012, 2014-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006, 2009-2011, 2013-2016 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006, 2008-2019 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006, 2008-2016 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006, 2008-2015 Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006 Russ Allbery
Copyright © 2006 Frank Lichtenheld <djpig@debian.org>
Copyright © 2006 Frank Lichtenheld
Copyright © 2006 Dpkg Developes SZERVÁC Attila <sas@321.hu>, 2006.
Copyright © 2006 Dpkg Developers
Copyright © 2006 Canonical Ltd, and Rosetta Contributors 2006. Erdal Ronahi
<erdal.ronahi@gmail.com>, 2006-2007.
Copyright © 2005-2023 Dpkg Developers
Copyright © 2005-2008 Dpkg Developers
Copyright © 2005, 2007 Frank Lichtenheld <frank@lichtenheld.de>
Copyright © 2005 Scott James Remnant (original implementation on www.dpkg.org)
Copyright © 2005 Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>
Copyright © 2005 Scott James Remnant
Copyright © 2005 Roderick Schertler <roderick@argon.org>
Copyright © 2005 Marcus Brinkmann <brinkmd@debian.org>
Copyright © 2005 Frank Lichtenheld <frank@lichtenheld.de>
Copyright © 2005 Brendan O'Dea <bod@debian.org>
Copyright © 2004-2012 Dpkg Developers
Copyright © 2004-2005 Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>,
Copyright © 2004-2005 Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>
Copyright © 2004-2005 Scott James Remnant <keybuk@debian.org>
Copyright © 2004 Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>.
Copyright © 2004 Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>
Copyright © 2004 Scott James Remnant <keybuk@debian.org>
Copyright © 2004 Frank Lichtenheld
Copyright © 2004 Dpkg Developers Safir Šećerović <sapphire@linux.org.ba>, 2004.
Copyright © 2004 Dpkg Developers
Copyright © 2004 Changwoo Ryu <cwryu@debian.org>
Copyright © 2003-2013 Yann Dirson <dirson@debian.org>
Copyright © 2003-2008 Dpkg Developers
Copyright © 2003-2005 Dpkg Developers Konstantinos Margaritis
<markos@debian.org>, 2003. George Papamichelakis <george@step.gr>, 2004. George
Papamichelakis <debian-l10n-greek@lists.debian.org>, 2004. Greek Translation
Team <debian-l10n-greek@lists.debian.org>, 2005. quad-nrg.net <galaxico@quad-
nrg.net>, 2005.
Copyright © 2003 Josip Rodin <joy@debian.org>
Copyright © 2003 Daniel Silverstone <dsilvers@digital-scurf.org>
Copyright © 2003 Adam Heath <doogie@debian.org>
Copyright © 2002-2003 Adam Heath <doogie@debian.org>
Copyright © 2002 Wichert Akkerman <wakkerma@debian.org>
Copyright © 2002 Josip Rodin
Copyright © 2002 Adam Heath <doogie@debian.org>
Copyright © 2001-2006, 2008-2010, 2012, 2014-2015 Software in the Public
Interest, Inc. Antoni Bella <bella5@teleline.es>, 2001-2002. Jordi Mallach
<jordi@debian.org>, 2002-2006, 2008-2010, 2015. Jordà Polo <jorda@ettin.org>,
2006. Guillem Jover <guillem@debian.org>, 2006-2023.
Copyright © 2001,2002 Wichert Akkerman <wakkerma@debian.org>
Copyright © 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2010 Software in the Public
Interest, Inc. Antoni Bella <bella5@teleline.es>, 2001, 2002. Jordi Mallach
<jordi@debian.org>, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2010. Guillem Jover
<guillem@debian.org>, 2010-2022.
Copyright © 2001 Wichert Akkerman <wichert@debian.org>
Copyright © 2001 Wichert Akkerman <wakkerma@debian.org>
Copyright © 2001 Wichert Akkerman
Copyright © 2001 Julian Gilbey <jdg@debian.org>
Copyright © 2001 Joost Kooij
Copyright © 2001 Joey Hess <joeyh@debian.org>
Copyright © 2000-2003 Adam Heath <doogie@debian.org>
Copyright © 2000-2002 Wichert Akkerman <wakkerma@debian.org>
Copyright © 2000-2001 Wichert Akkerman <wakkerma@debian.org>
Copyright © 2000,2002 Wichert Akkerman <wichert@deephackmode.org>
Copyright © 2000,2002 Wichert Akkerman
Copyright © 2000,2001 Wichert Akkerman.
Copyright © 2000,2001 Wichert Akkerman <wichert@debian.org>
Copyright © 2000,2001 Wichert Akkerman <wakkerma@debian.org>
Copyright © 2000,2001 Wichert Akkerman
Copyright © 2000, 2001 Wichert akkerman.
Copyright © 2000, 2001 Wichert Akkerman <wakkerma@debian.org>
Copyright © 2000, 2001 Wichert Akkerman
Copyright © 2000 Wichert Akkerman <wakkerma@debian.org>
Copyright © 2000 Wichert Akkerman
Copyright © 2000 Software in the Public Interest. Hartmut Koptein
<koptein@debian.org>, Apr 2000. Erich Schubert <debian@vitavonni.de>, March
2001. Michael Piefel <piefel@debian.org>, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005. Florian
Ernst <florian@uni-hd.de>, 2004. Sven Joachim <svenjoac@gmx.de>, 2006-2010,
2012, 2014-2015, 2019-2022.
Copyright © 2000 Sean 'Shaleh' Perry
Copyright © 2000 Josip Rodin
Copyright © 2000 Joey Hess <joeyh@debian.org>
Copyright © 1999-2023 Software in the Public Interest Daniel Nylander
<po@danielnylander.se>, 2006, 2008. Peter Krefting <peter@softwolves.pp.se>,
1999-2023.
Copyright © 1999-2022 Software in the Public Interest Daniel Nylander
<po@danielnylander.se>, 2006. Peter Krefting <peter@softwolves.pp.se>,
1999-2022.
Copyright © 1999-2010 Software in the Public Interest.
Copyright © 1999-2003 Wichert Akkerman <wakkerma@debian.org>
Copyright © 1999-2001 Marcus Brinkmann <brinkmd@debian.org>
Copyright © 1999, 2009 Raphaël Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>
Copyright © 1999, 2002 Wichert Akkerman <wichert@deephackmode.org>
Copyright © 1999, 2000 Wichert Akkerman <wakkerma@debian.org>
Copyright © 1999, 2000 Software in the Public Interest. Thiago Jung Bauermann
<jungmann@cwb.matrix.com.br>, 1999. Carlos Henrique Santos Laviola
<claviola@brfree.com.br>, 2000.
Copyright © 1999 Wichert Akkerman <wakkerma@debian.org>
Copyright © 1999 Roderick Schertler
Copyright © 1999 Klee Dienes <klee@mit.edu>
Copyright © 1999 Jim Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>
Copyright © 1999 Darren Benham
Copyright © 1999 Ben Collins <bcollins@debian.org>
Copyright © 1998-1999 Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
Copyright © 1998, 2001 Manoj Srivastava <srivasta@debian.org>
Copyright © 1998 Richard Braakman
Copyright © 1998 Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
Copyright © 1998 Heiko Schlittermann <hs@schlittermann.de>
Copyright © 1997-1999 Ian Jackson <ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright © 1997-1998 Charles Briscoe-Smith
Copyright © 1997 Klee Dienes <klee@debian.org>
Copyright © 1996-1998 Ian Jackson and Christian Schwarz
Copyright © 1996 Michael Shields <shields@crosslink.net>
Copyright © 1996 Juho Vuori <javuori@cc.helsinki.fi>
Copyright © 1996 Ian Jackson <ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright © 1996 Ian Jackson
Copyright © 1996 Andy Guy <awpguy@acs.ucalgary.ca>
Copyright © 1995-2003, 2005-2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright © 1995-1998 Ian Jackson <ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright © 1995-1996 Ian Jackson <ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright © 1995-1996 Ian Jackson <ian@chiark.chu.cam.ac.uk>
Copyright © 1995-1996 Ian Jackson
Copyright © 1995-1996 Erick Branderhorst
Copyright © 1995,1996 Ian Jackson <ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright © 1995,1996 Erick Branderhorst <branderh@debian.org>.
Copyright © 1995, 2008 Ian Jackson <ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright © 1995, 1996 Ian Jackson <ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright © 1995 Raul Miller, Ian Jackson, Ian Murdock
Copyright © 1995 Raul Miller
Copyright © 1995 Juho Vuori <javuori@cc.helsinki.fi>
Copyright © 1995 Ian Jackson <ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright © 1995 Ian Jackson
Copyright © 1995 Bruce Perens
Copyright © 1994-2023 Dpkg Developers. Frans Spiesschaert
<Frans.Spiesschaert@yucom.be>, 2023.
Copyright © 1994-2021 Dpkg Developers. Quentin PAGÈS <quentinantonin@free.fr>,
2021, 2023.
Copyright © 1994-2016 Dpkg Developers. Frans Spiesschaert
<Frans.Spiesschaert@yucom.be>, 2016-2023.
Copyright © 1994-2016 Dpkg Developers. Frans Spiesschaert
<Frans.Spiesschaert@yucom.be>, 2015-2023.
Copyright © 1994-1996 Ian Jackson.
Copyright © 1994-1996 Ian Jackson <ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright © 1994-1995 Ian Jackson <ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright © 1994,1995 Ian Jackson <ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright © 1994, 1995 Ian Jackson <ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright 1999-2023 Software in the Public Interest Peter Krefting
<peter@softwolves.pp.se>, 1999-2023.
Copyright (c) 2007 Rosetta Contributors and Canonical Ltd 2007 Gintautas
Miliauskas <gintas@akl.lt>, 2008. Andrius Kokiančiks <napalm@mintis.lt>, 2008.
Copyright (C) 2016 Takuma Yamada <tyamada@takumayamada.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 dpkg og nedenstående oversættere. Claus Hindsgaul
<claus_h@image.dk>, 2002, 2004, 2005, 2006. Ole Laursen <olau@hardworking.dk>,
2002. Claus Hindsgaul <claus.hindsgaul@gmail.com>, 2006, 2007. Ask Hjorth Larsen
<asklarsen@gmail.com>, 2010. Joe Hansen <joedalton2@yahoo.dk>, 2012, 2014.
Copyright (C) 2014 Software in the Public Interest, Inc. Mert Dirik
<mertdirik@gmail.com>, 2014.
Copyright (C) 2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 dpkg_dselect & nedenstående oversættere. Claus Hindsgaul
<claus.hindsgaul@gmail.com>, 2002, 2004, 2005, 2006. reviewed by Ole Laursen
<olau@hardworking.dk>, 2002. Joe Hansen <joedalton2@yahoo.dk>, 2012, 2014.
Copyright (C) 2012 Free Software Foundation, Inc. Beatrice Torracca
<beatricet@libero.it>, 2012, 2013, 2014. Hugh Hartmann <hhartmann@libero.it>,
2000-2012.
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Raphael Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>.
Copyright (C) 2010 Raphael Hertzog <hertzog@debian.org>.
Copyright (C) 2010 Guillem Jover.
Copyright (C) 2010 -2012 Software in the Public Interest
Copyright (C) 2010 - 2012 Software in the Public Interest
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Raphael Hertzog.
Copyright (C) 2009, 2010, 2012, 2013, 2014 Free Software Foundation Inc. Felipe
Castro <fefcas@gmail.com>, 2009, 2010, 2012, 2013, 2014.
Copyright (C) 2009 Tetralet.
Copyright (C) 2009 Software in the Public Interest, Inc. Marcos Alvarez Costales
<marcos.alvarez.costales@gmail.com>, 2009.
Copyright (C) 2008,2011 Dpkg Developers Bart Cornelis <cobaco@skolelinux.no>,
2008. Jeroen Schot <schot@a-eskwadraat.nl>, 2011. Frans Spiesschaert
<Frans.Spiesschaert@yucom.be>, 2014, 2022.
Copyright (C) 2008 Raphael Hertzog.
Copyright (C) 2008 Raphael Hertzog
Copyright (C) 2007-2023 Software in the Public Interest, Inc. Theppiak
Karoonboonyanan <thep@debian.org>, 2007-2014, 2023.
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Debian French l10n team
<debian-l10n-french@lists.debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Raphael Hertzog.
Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. Ivar Smolin <okul at linux
ee>, 2007.
Copyright (C) 2007 Frank Lichtenheld.
Copyright (C) 2007 Frank Lichtenheld
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Guillem Jover.
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. Ivar Smolin <okul at
linux ee>, 2006, 2007.
Copyright (C) 2006 Software in the Public Interest, Inc. SZERVÁC Attila
<sas@321>, 2005. KELEMEN Gábor <kelemeng@gnome> & SZERVÁC Attila <sas@321> 2006.
Copyright (C) 2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc. Yuri Kozlov
<kozlov.y@gmail.com>, 2006.
Copyright (C) 2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc. KISE Hiroshi
<kise@fuyuneko.jp>, 2006 - 2010. TAKAHASHI Motonobu <monyo@monyo.com>, 2011 -
2013.
Copyright (C) 2006 Frank Lichtenheld.
Copyright (C) 2005-2009 Debian French l10n team
<debian-l10n-french@lists.debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2005-2009 Christian Perrier <bubulle@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2005,2007 Frank Lichtenheld.
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006, 2008 Software in the Public Interest, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc. Written by Simon
Josefsson.
Copyright (C) 2005 Software in the Public Interest, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005 Eric Pareja. Eric Pareja, 2005
Copyright (C) 2004-2015 Kenshi Muto <kmuto@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2004-2014 Kenshi Muto <kmuto@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>.
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 Free Software Foundation,
Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004 Free Software Foundation, Inc. Miguel Figueiredo
<elmig@debianpt.org>, 2004-2014.
Copyright (C) 2004 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004 Dpkg Developers.
Copyright (C) 2003 Software in the Public Interest, Inc. Debian Indonesia L10N
Team <debian-l10n-id@gurame.fisika.ui.ac.id>, 2004. Translator: Arief S
Fitrianto <arief@gurame.fisika.ui.ac.id>, 2005-2006 Parlin Imanuel
<parlin_i@yahoo.com>, 2005
Copyright (C) 2003 Software in the Public Interest, Inc. Debian Indonesia L10N
Team <debian-l10n-id@gurame.fisika.ui.ac.id>, 2004-2010. Translator: Parlin
Imanuel <parlin_i@yahoo.com>, 2005 Arief S Fitrianto
<arief@gurame.fisika.ui.ac.id>, 2005-2010
Copyright (C) 2001 Wichert Akkerman.
Copyright (C) 2001 Wichert Akkerman
Copyright (C) 2000-2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2017, 2018 Free Software Foundation,
Inc. Lele Gaifax <lele@seldati.it>, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006.
Stefano Canepa <sc@linux.it>, 2004, 2005.
Copyright (C) 2000-2002 Wichert Akkerman.
Copyright (C) 2000,2002 Wichert Akkerman.
Copyright (C) 2000,2001 Wichert Akkerman.
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 Free Software Foundation, Inc. Lele
Gaifax <lele@seldati.it>, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004.
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002 Martin Quinson <Martin.Quinson@tuxfamily.org>
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 Wichert Akkerman.
Copyright (C) 2000 Wichert Akkerman.
Copyright (C) 2000 Wichert Akkerman
Copyright (C) 2000 Jérôme Marant <jerome.marant@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2000 Jerome Marant <jerome.marant@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 1999-2004 Keita Maehara <maehara@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 1999-2001 Marcus Brinkmann <brinkmd@debian.org>.
Copyright (C) 1999 Software in the Public Interest, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999 Michael Sobolev
Copyright (C) 1998 Masato Taruishi <taru@debian.or.jp>
Copyright (C) 1997 Klee Dienes.
Copyright (C) 1997 Klee Dienes
Copyright (C) 1997 Christophe Le Bars <clebars@debian.org>.
Copyright (C) 1996 Miquel van Smoorenburg <miquels@cistron.nl>
Copyright (C) 1996 Michael Shields <shields@crosslink.net>
Copyright (C) 1996 Kim-Minh Kaplan.
Copyright (C) 1996 Kim-Minh Kaplan <kkaplan@cdfhp3.in2p3.fr>
Copyright (C) 1996 Ian Jackson.
Copyright (C) 1996 Ian Jackson and Klee Dienes.
Copyright (C) 1996 Ian Jackson
Copyright (C) 1995-1998, 2000-2002, 2004-2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1995,1996 Erick Branderhorst <branderhorst@heel.fgg.eur.nl>
Copyright (C) 1995 Ian Jackson.
Copyright (C) 1995 Bruce Perens <bruce@pixar.com>
Copyright (C) 1994-1996 Ian Jackson.
Copyright (C) 1994,1995,1996 Ian Jackson <ijackson@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright (C) 1994,1995 Ian Jackson.
Copyright (C) 1994 Matt Welsh <mdw@sunsite.unc.edu>
Copyright (C) 1994 Ian Murdock <imurdock@debian.org> Colin Plumb and Branko
Lankester in 1993.
Copyright (C) 1994 Carl Streeter <streeter@cae.wisc.edu>
Copyright (C) 1989,90,91,92,93,94,96,97 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1988-1994,1996-1999,2003,2004,2005,2006 Free Software Foundation,
Inc.
Copyright (C) 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999,
2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1987,88,89,90,91,92,93,94,96,97 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1987, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97 Free Software
Foundation, Inc.
(C) Sven Joachim <svenjoac@gmx.de>, 2008.
(C) Helge Kreutzmann <debian@helgefjell.de>, 2007-2023.
(C) Helge Kreutzmann <debian@helgefjell.de>, 2004, 2006-2023.
(C) 2010 Guillem Jover.
(C) 2010 Guillem Jover
(C) 2009-2010 Raphael Hertzog.
(C) 2009-2010 Raphael Hertzog
(C) 2006-2009 Guillem Jover.
(C) 2006-2009 Guillem Jover
(C) 2000-2002 Wichert Akkerman.
(C) 2000,2001 Wichert Akkerman.
(C) 2000,2001 Wichert Akkerman
(C) 2000, 2001 Wichert Akkerman.
(C) 2000, 2001 Wichert Akkerman
(C) 2000 Wichert Akkerman.
(C) 1996 Kim-Minh Kaplan.
(C) 1995 Ian Jackson.
(C) 1995 Ian Jackson
(C) 1994-1996 Ian Jackson. 
(C) 1994-1996 Ian Jackson.
(C) 1994-1996 Ian Jackson
(C) 1994,1995 Ian Jackson.
